Measurements of the absolute value of the penetration depth in high-T c superconductors using a tunnel diode resonator
A method is presented to measure the absolute value of the London penetration depth, λ, from the frequency shift of a resonator. The technique involves coating a high-Tc superconductor (HTSC) with film of low -Tc material of known thickness and penetration depth. The method is applied to measure London penetration depth in YBa2Cu3O 7−δ (YBCO) Bi2Sr2CaCu2O 8+δ (BSCCO) and Pr1.85Ce0.15CuO 4−δ (PCCO). For YBCO and BSCCO, the values of λ(0) are in agreement with the literature values. For PCCO λ ≈ 2790Å, reported for the first time.
The London penetration depth, λ(T ), is a quantity of fundamental importance. Its temperature, field, and doping dependencies are directly related to the density of quasiparticle energy states, knowledge of which is cru- cial for testing models of pairing symmetry and mecha- nisms of superconductivity . λ(T ) is also a key param- eter in determining the response and collective proper- ties of the Abrikosov vortex lattice . For single crys- tals, measurements of the resonant frequency shift of a microwave cavity or tunnel diode oscillator provide the highest resolution for changes of the pene- tration depth, ∆λ ≡ λ(T ) − λ(T min ), with respect to temperature. For the sub-mm sized crystals typically studied in high-T c work, resolution of better than 0.2Å can be achieved . However, the usual resonator ap- proach has the disadvantage that it does not provide the absolute magnitude of λ. This shortcoming arises from various experimental uncertainties and is not an inher- ent limitation of the resonator technique. As we show in this paper, by suitably plating superconducting crystals it is possible to exploit the extremely high sensitivity of the resonator to changes in frequency and thus obtain an absolute measurement of λ(T ).
The method described here permits a simultaneous measurement of λ(T min ) and ∆λ(T ) on the same sam- ple. The zero-temperature penetration depth, λ(0) can be obtained by extrapolation to T = 0. Together, λ(0) and ∆λ(T ) determine the normalized superfluid density ρ s (T ) = (1 + ∆λ(T )/λ(0) −2 , the quantity directly re- lated to the electromagnetic response of the supercon- ductor. This is a distinct advantage over the situation in which these two quantities are obtained by different groups using different samples and techniques. In addi- tion, no new physical model is required to obtain λ(T ) from the data, unlike the case with techniques such as µSR or reversible magnetization.
Our method has been tested on single crystals of YBCO, BSCCO and PCCO and compared with values of λ(T ) obtained from other techniques.
It is first worth discussing why resonator methods can- not normally determine the absolute penetration depth. We focus on a lumped LC resonator but the ideas also hold for a distributed device such as a microwave cavity. In the absence of a superconducting sample the empty resonant frequency is f 0 = 1/ √ LC. When a supercon- ducting sample is inserted into the resonator, the induc- tance L decreases due to a decrease of the magnetic field energy W m = LI 2 /2c 2 as a result of Meissner expulsion. For a platelet sample of thickness 2d in the z− direction and mean planar dimensions 2w × 2w in the x − y plane, this leads to an increase of the frequency by an amount ∆f ≡ f (T ) − f (0) given by Here V s is the sample volume, V 0 is the effective volume of the resonator, N is the demagnetization factor and the field is applied along the z direction. R is the effective sample dimension which depends upon field orientation relative to the sample and sample geometry . For the standard "Meissner" configurations in which the field is applied parallel to the surface of an infinite slab, N = 0 and R = d. For the geometry used here, in which the AC field is normal to the face of a platelet, R ≈ w/5 .
The measurement process is sketched in . The superconducting sample is inserted into the resonator, re- sulting in a change in frequency ∆f 0 . For typical HTSC samples ∆f 0 10 4 Hz. In principle, if R were known pre- cisely then one could use Eq. (1) together with the mea- sured ∆f 0 to determine λ(0). Unfortunately, there are several sources of error. First, the accuracy with which ∆f 0 can be determined is limited by repeatability. Ex- tracting and inserting the sample in situ typically leads
Frequency shifts encountered in resonance measure- ments. The static uncertainty δf0 is usually greater than the frequency shift due to finite λ(0). Relative frequency shift δf is independent of δf0 and permits accurate measurements of ∆λ.
to an error of δf 0 ∼ 10 Hz out of a total ∆f ∼ 10 4 . This "static" uncertainty is shown by the gray band in . According to Eq. (1), the difference between the perfect diamagnet and sample with finite λ is only f 0 (1 − λ/R) ≈ 30 Hz for a typical YBCO crystal where R ≥ 50 µm and λ(0) = 0.15 µm which is quite compara- ble to the static uncertainty, δf 0 ≈ 10 Hz. Furthermore, extracting and inserting the sample gives the value of ∆f 0 already reduced by finite λ(0). Other methods of estima- tion of ∆f 0 such as measuring a ball made of a conven- tional superconductor or replicating an HTSC sample using low-T c material 3 result even in greater uncertainty, because in addition to an inevitable "static" uncertainty between different runs there are additional uncertainties related to differences between real sample and the sub- stitute. Furthermore, realistic samples are irregular and so have dimensions which are uncertain to much more than λ(T ). They may also have large demagnetizing ef- fects. Finally Eq. (1) itself involves approximations for R that adds further error. It is therefore not feasible to measure λ(T ) using resonator frequency shifts in the straightforward manner outlined. Despite this limitation on accuracy, the precision with which changes in λ can be measured is much higher. This is illustrated in by the change ∆f upon warming the sample from low to intermediate temperature. In this case the sample stays fixed so the temperature-independent static uncertainty is irrelevant. Only the oscillator noise matters, which is typically 2000 times smaller than the static uncertainty. It is therefore imperative to adopt a technique that keeps the sample fixed.
Our method is illustrated in . The sample under study is plated with a conventional low T c superconduc- tor, in this case an Al film. The film thickness t should be larger than λ(Al) but much smaller than the normal state skin depth of Al (≈ 3 µm at the operating frequency
Field penetration above and below transition temper- ature of Al film. (a) T < Tc(Al): magnetic field penetrates only λ(Al). (b) T > Tc(Al): magnetic field penetrates the Al layer and HTSC superconductor λ(HT SC). of 10 MHz). Using λ = H −1 ∞ 0 B(x)dx we find that for T < T c (Al) the magnetic field penetrates to λ(T < T c (Al) = λ(Al)+ exp (−t/λ(Al) [λ(HT SC) − λ(Al)]. Above T c (Al) the penetration depth is λ(T > T c (Al) = t + λ(HT SC). Converting the frequency change ∆f = f (T > T c (Al) − f (T < T c (Al) to a change in the effective penetration depth, ∆λ, using Eq. (1), we obtain:
The errors in this method arise from uncertainties in the film thickness t, the resonator calibration constant and λ(Al). Literature values for the effective penetra- tion depth of aluminum films, λ(Al) ≈ λ L (Al) ξ(0)/ℓ range from 400 to 600Å 13 . Here, the BCS coherence length ξ(0) ≈ 16000Å, the mean free path, ℓ ≈ 1000Å and the London penetration depth λ L (Al) ≈ 160Å. We choose the commonly accepted value, λ(Al) ≈ 500 ± 100 A. The Al film was 800 ± 50Å thick. Uncertainty in the calibration constant gives an additional error of about 10Å giving a total error of approximately ±150Å. It can be further reduced by choosing different coating ma- terials, which will give additional independent reference points and by varying the thickness of the coating layer. Although it is clearly desirable to improve the accuracy, an error of 150Å still results in only a 1% deviation of ρ s over 20 K range for YBCO. A somewhat similar measurement technique was used earlier to determine λ in heavy fermion compounds . In that experiment, a flux trapped or screened by a thin Cd layer was used, but owing to the much reduced sensitivity of SQUID mag- netization measurements, it is not suitable for high-T c materials.
λ(HT SC), was measured in three different super- conductors: YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ (YBCO), Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ
Penetration depth in single crystal YBCO calculated from Eq. (2). Inset: Temperature range in which Al becomes normal.
(BSCCO), and the electron-doped Pr 1.85 Ce 0.15 CuO 4−δ (PCCO). YBCO crystals were grown in yttria stabilized zirconia crucibles as described and annealed to achieve maximal T c ≈ 93 K . BSCCO samples where grown using a floating zone process and had T c ≈ 89.5K .
Single crystals of PCCO were grown using directional solidification technique and annealed in argon to achieve T c ≈ 22.5K . The aluminum coating was applied with a magnetron sputtering system with 5 cm rotated Al tar- get ( 99.999 % purity). Sputtering was conducted in an argon atmosphere and was homogeneous over 20 cm 2 . The Al layer thickness, t, was calibrated using a Inficon XTC 2 with 6 MHZ gold quartz crystal and later directly measured using SEM edge imaging of a broken sample. The measurement technique utilized a 10 MHz tunnel diode oscillator whose specifications have been reported previously . Samples were mounted on a moveable sap- phire stage whose temperature could be varied from 0.35 to 100 K. The low base temperature was crucial in order to obtain the full frequency shift due to the diamagnetism of the Al film.
We first present experiments in YBCO single crystals. Previous work has shown that λ(0) is anisotropic with λ a (0) = 1600Å and λ b (0) = 800Å 6 . Since supercur- rents for the H||c orientation flow along both a and b axes, we obtain an average of λ a and λ b . Two crystals, plated in separate evaporation runs, were measured. The first is shown in . Note that contribution due to Al film is subtracted using Eq. (2) and therefore the ∆λ(T ) curve begins at negative values. Thus, at T = T c (Al), λ(HT SC)(T c (Al) is obtained. Linear extrapolation to T = 0 yields λ(Y BCO) ≈ 1460Å. This value should be compared to values obtained from µSR, 1405 ± 92Å 22 , 1550Å , 1586 − 1699Å 24 ; polarized neutron reflectom- etry, 1400 ± 100Å ; magnetic susceptibility of grain - aligned powder, 1400Å and infrared spectroscopy, 1440
Penetration depth in (from bottom to top) YBCO, BSCCO and PCCO single crystals. For YBCO and BSCCO data were extrapolated using λ(T ) ∝ T , whereas for PCCO λ(T ) ∝ T 2 dependence was used.
A . Since T c (Al) is quite low and the Al plating in its normal state is transparent to 10 MHz RF, it is possible to monitor dλ(T )/dT of YBCO for T > T c (Al). This is an important check on the method since it is conceivable that the Al coating might change the surface properties of the cuprate enough to alter its penetration depth. The slope dλ/dT ≈ 5.1Å/K. This slope is somewhat larger than the value of 4.1Å/K reported previously , but is in agreement with our recent measurements conducted on unplated samples in the H||ab configuration. The second YBCO sample, shown in , gave λ(0) ≈ 1460Åand dλ/dT ≈ 5.10Å/K, both within the estimated error with the first sample.
The Inset to shows details of the penetration depth variation warming the sample above T c (Al). The measured T c (Al) ≈ 1.69 K is significantly larger than the bulk value T c (Al) ≈ 1.18 K 28 . This increase could be due to proximity effects 29 , but could also be caused by disorder and altered chemical composition of aluminum film . Figure summarizes the measurements for all three cuprates.
For BSCCO-2212 crystal we obtained λ(BSCCO) ≈ 2690Å, which can be compared to data from: reversible magnetization, λ ≈ 2100Å 17 ; µSR, λ ≈ 1800Å 18 ; and lower critical field measurements, λ ≈ 2700Å 19 . It is clear that a fairly large disagreement still exists over the value of λ(0) in this material. We obtained a linear variation of λ(T ) with a dλ/dT ≈ 11.7 A/K, compared to dλ/dT ≈ 10.5Å/K in previous mi- crowave and µSR . To within our current precision, it appears that the Al plating has no effect on the elec- trodynamics of the underlying cuprate superconductor.
The uppermost curve in shows the results for the electron-doped cuprate superconductor, PCCO. This material has been cited as an example of a cuprate s-wave superconductor. Recent measurements with higher resolution and lower temperatures have shown that λ(T ) varies quadratically with temperature, indicative of a nodal order parameter in the presence of impu- rity scattering . This is shown in the figure with dλ/dT ≈ 4.38Å/K 2 . We find λ(0) ≈ 2790Å. The only published value was obtained from measurements of H c1 = Φ 0 /[4πλ(0) 2 ] ln κ which gave λ(0) ≈ 1000Å . It is difficult to reliably determine H c1 in thin crystals owing to demagnetization and pinning surface barrier effects. Our approach is arguably more reliable since no DC fields or vortices are involved and we have obtained close agree- ment with other methods in YBCO and BSCCO.
In conclusion, we have developed a new technique to measure λ(T ) in high−T c superconductors. We ob- tained λ(0) = 1390 and 1460Å for two YBCO crys- tals, λ(0) = 2690Å for BSCCO, and λ(0) = 2790Å for PCCO. All values are determined with the ±150Å accuracy. The plating has no discernable effect on the underlying temperature dependence of λ(T ). The accu- racy of the method is limited principally by uncertainties in the Al film thickness.