Microscopic Evidence of Direct Coupling between Magnetic and Superconducting Order Parameters in BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 
The coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity in the isovalent-P-substituted BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 has been investigated microscopically by 31 P-NMR measurements. We found that superconducting (SC) transition occurs in a magnetic region with static ordered moments and that the moments are reduced below the SC transition temperature T c in the samples near the phase boundary of magnetism and superconductivity. Our results indicate that magnetism and superconductivity coexist spatially but compete with each other on the same Fermi surfaces. The coexistence state is qualitatively different from that observed in other unconventional superconductors and gives a strict constraint on the theoretical model for superconductivity in BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 . 
The newly discovered iron-pnictide high-T c superconductivity appears where antiferromagnetism is suppressed by chemical substitution or pressure. Within various ironpnictide superconductors, we have focused on the isovalent-P-substituted BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 system 5,6) and carried out comprehensive NMR studies on the system. This is because the isovalent P substitution introduces a negligible change in carrier concentration but changes magnetic interactions systematically. In addition, very clean single crystals are available for various measurements. By investigating the spin dynamics probed via 31 P-NMR as a function of P concentration, we showed that the maximum T c is observed at the P concentration at which magnetic order vanishes; thus, we suggested that the antiferromagnetic (AFM) fluctuations associated with quantum criticality play a central role in obtaining high-T c superconductivity. We consider that the study of the coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity, which is observed in the phase boundary, would give important information about the superconducting (SC) properties and mechanism. There are experimental reports not only from macroscopic and neutron scattering measurements but from microscopic measurements of the coexistence and competition of magnetism and superconductivity in iron pnictides. We point out that diffraction measurements give magnetic moments averaged over a wider spatial region and cannot provide microscopic information about the coexistence. It remains an open question whether an SC phase transition occurs in a magnetic region of a sample or the superconductivity in a magnetic region is induced by the penetration of a nonmagnetic SC region and whether the same or different electronic states contribute to magnetism and superconductivity. In this paper, we report the occurrence of the SC transition in a magnetic region of the spin-density-wave (SDW) ordering, which is concluded from the investigation of internal field and nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1=T 1 by site-selective NMR measurements. 
We used BaFe 2 (As 0:80 P 0:20 ) 2 and BaFe 2 (As 0:75 P 0:25 ) 2 , which are located near the phase boundary as shown in . We used a collection of single crystals ($100 mg) for our NMR measurements. The preparation of the singlecrystal samples is described in the literature. The P concentration values were determined using an energydispersive X-ray analyzer and confirmed by lattice-constant measurements since they follow Vegard's law. and 1(c) show the temperature dependence of the resistivity xx values of the x ¼ 0:20 and 0.25 samples. The structural and magnetic transitions were determined from the anomalies in the temperature derivative of xx and are plotted in . The magnetic transition temperature derived from xx is in good agreement with the NMR results shown later. Each single crystal was fixed randomly with a GE varnish to prevent preferential alignment in the applied magnetic field due to the anisotropy of magnetization and the SC Meissner effect. The ac susceptibility measurements indicate nonbulk superconductivity at ambient pressure but bulk superconductivity at T Ã c $ 13 K at P $ 2 GPa in the x ¼ 0:20 sample []. In the x ¼ 0:25 sample, the gradual development of a Meissner signal below T on c $ 30 K and the SC transition suggested by a broad peak at around T Ã c $ 14 K in the temperature derivative of the Meissner signal are observed []. Note that the Meissner signal saturates at low temperatures, indicative of bulk superconductivity in these samples. The NMR spectrum becomes broader and inhomogeneous below the magnetically ordered temperature T N . To detect a site-selective electronic state in the inhomogeneous state, we measured the 31 P nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1=T 1 across the resonance signal. We applied as small RF fields as possible for the site-selective 1=T 1 measurements in order to obtain the recovery curve of nuclear magnetization with a single T 1 component. (a) shows the temperature variation of the 31 P-NMR spectrum for x ¼ 0:25, which was obtained by sweeping magnetic fields. A single sharp spectrum was observed above T N , but no anomaly was detected in the NMR spectrum at the structural transition T S determined by xx . Below T N , a broad NMR spectrum with a Gaussian shape develops gradually and coexists with a sharp peak at around T on c $ 30 K. We measured 1=T 1 at the sharp and broad peaks shown by the solid black and dashed red arrows, respectively. (c) shows the temperature dependence of ðT 1 T Þ À1 at those peaks. ðT 1 T Þ À1 measured at the sharp peak continues to increase down to T c , indicative of the absence of a magnetic order at T N , but ðT 1 T Þ À1 at the broad peak shows a kink at T N , indicative of the presence of a magnetic order. These results suggest that the sharp (broad) NMR peak arises from the region where P concentration is slightly higher (lower) than x ¼ 0:25. Thus, the two-peak structure around T on c is ascribed to the spatial distribution of the P concentration, since the variation in T N is very steep against the P concentration, as seen in . 
The 31 P-NMR spectrum in the AFM state gives information about the ordered moments, since the internal field at the P site originates from the moments. The shape of the spectrum reflects the field distribution at the P site; thus, it is related to the magnetic structure of the moments. The average of the internal field is related to the magnitude of the ordered moment, which is the order parameter of the AFM state. Since we used randomly oriented samples for the measurements and the nuclear spin of 31 P is I ¼ 1=2, a rectangular NMR spectrum is expected when the ordered moments are in a commensurate structure. Such a rectangular NMR spectrum was actually observed in slightly Psubstituted samples, such as the x ¼ 0:07 sample. The broad Gaussian-shaped NMR spectrum indicates the distribution of the internal field at the P site and suggests an incommensurate spin structure. The magnetic structure changes from a commensurate structure to an incommensurate structure (SDW type) with the P substitution. The averaged internal field hH int i at the P site is coupled with the ordered moment hMi as hH int i ¼ 31 A hf hMi with the hyperfine coupling constant 31 A hf $ 0:32 T/ B . 18) hH int i is 
(Color online) (a) Field-swept 31 P-NMR spectra in BaFe 2 (As 0:75 P 0:25 ) 2 . The solid black and dashed red arrows indicate the magnetic fields where the 1=T 1 of the paramagnetic and AFM states is measured. (b) Temperature dependence of the averaged internal field hH int i estimated from the second moment of the observed NMR signals. hH int i increases below T N but decreases at T Ã c . The broken line indicates the fitting of the data ranging from T Ã c to T N to the phenomenological formula of cðT N À T Þ with c ¼ 0:02, T N ¼ 56:2 K, and ¼ 0:42. The red solid curve is the fit with the GL model in the case of homogeneous coexistence 
with M 0 ¼ 0:35 B , A ¼ 2:03 Â 10 À2 K À1 , and B ¼ 8:33 Â 10 À2 K À1 ]. (c) Temperature dependence of ðT 1 T Þ À1 measured at the sharp paramagnetic NMR signal (closed squares) and the broad magnetic NMR signal (triangles and circles). (d) and (e) ðT 1 T Þ À1 measured across the 31 P spectra at The ðT 1 T Þ À1 over the entire spectrum at 5 K is smaller than that at 20 K, indicative of the occurrence of superconductivity over the entire region of the sample. 
(Color online) (a) Phase diagram of BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 . Open triangles and closed diamonds show the structural transition temperature T S and magnetic transition temperature T N , respectively. The onset of superconductivity T on c determined by ac susceptibility measurements is indicated by a closed circle. T Ã c at x ¼ 0:25 is denoted by a closed square (see text). (b) and (c) xx ðT Þ and the temperature derivative of the xx ðT Þ in (b) x ¼ 0:20 and (c) x ¼ 0:25 at ambient pressure. The structural and magnetic transitions are determined using d xx =dT , as shown by arrows. (d) and (e) Temperature dependence and the temperature derivative of the Meissner signal at (d) ambient pressure and P $ 2 GPa of x ¼ 0:20, and at (e) ambient pressure of x ¼ 0:25. evaluated from the increase in the second moment ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi hÁH 2 i p of each NMR spectrum below T N (hH int ðT Þi ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi hÁHðT < T N Þ 2 i p À ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi hÁHðT N Þ 2 i p ), and ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi hÁH 2 i p is determined as ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi hÁH 2 i p ¼ Z 1 0 ðH À H av Þ 2 gðHÞ dH Z 1 0 gðHÞ dH 2 6 6 4 3 7 7 5 1=2 ; ð1Þ 
where gðHÞ denotes the NMR intensity against magnetic fields and H av is the center of gravity of the NMR spectrum. (b) shows the temperature variations in hH int i and estimated hMi using 31 A hf . hH int i increases below T N but decreases below T Ã c $ 14 K. ðT 1 T Þ À1 measured at the magnetic broad signal decreases clearly below $14 K, as shown in , indicative of the occurrence of superconductivity in the magnetic region of the sample. In addition, we measured ðT 1 T Þ À1 across the 31 P-NMR spectra at 20 K (> T Ã c ) and 5 K (< T Ã c ), as shown in Figs. 2(d) and 2(e), and confirmed that ðT 1 T Þ À1 in all regions of the spectrum at 5 K is smaller than that at 20 K. This indicates that superconductivity occurs over the entire region of the sample. The sharp decrease in ðT 1 T Þ À1 at T Ã c means that superconductivity is a phase transition in the magnetic region and excludes the possibility that superconductivity in the magnetic region is induced by the penetration of the SC region in the sample. 
A similar nature of coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity was also observed in the x ¼ 0:20 sample at a pressure of $2 GPa. show the fieldswept NMR spectra and the temperature dependence of the hH int i at the P site and estimated hMi, which are determined by the same procedure as that in the case of the x ¼ 0:25 sample. For comparison, hH int i at ambient pressure is also shown in . hH int i increases below T N $ 73 K (60 K) at ambient pressure (P $ 2 GPa) but decreases below T Ã c $ 13 K at P $ 2 GPa, as observed in the x ¼ 0:25 sample. It should be noted that the paramagnetic signal was not observed at all in the sample, indicating that the entire region of the x ¼ 0:20 sample at P $ 2 GPa is in the magnetic state below T N and then shows superconductivity below T Ã c . These results indicate the microscopic coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity, and the suppression of the magnetic order parameter below T Ã c both for the x ¼ 0:25 sample at ambient pressure and for the x ¼ 0:20 sample at P $ 2 GPa. Now, we compare the present results with experimental results in other iron pnictides and unconventional superconductors. It was revealed by muon spin rotation (SR) that strongly disordered but static magnetism coexists with superconductivity in the narrow range of 0:1 < x < 0:13 on SmFeAsO 1Àx F x with the '1111' structure. However, neither the suppression of the ordered moments below T c nor the SC transition in a magnetic region was observed in SmFeAsO 1Àx F x . The suppression of the ordered moments below T c , which is observed in BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 , was also reported in Ba(Fe 1Àx Co x ) 2 As 2 by neutron scattering measurements and in Ba 1Àx K x Fe 2 As 2 by SR measurements. The competition between the magnetic and SC order parameters as well as the spatial coexistence are common features of the '122' compounds. It thus seems that the relationship between the magnetic and SC phases is different between the '1111' and '122' compounds. The spatial coexistence is also realized in heavy-fermion superconductors, whereas the nature of coexistence differs from that in BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 , i.e., magnetism and superconductivity occur at different parts of the Fermi surfaces. For example, it was reported that the spatial coexistence is observed microscopically in CeCo(In 1Àx Cd x ) and CeRhIn 5 at a certain pressure, where T N is higher than T c . In these compounds, the magnetically ordered moments develop below T N ; however, they become constant below T c without further change at low temperatures. This suggests that magnetism and superconductivity emerge from different parts of the Fermi surfaces, thus a single 4f state could satisfy the coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity. The suppression of the ordered moments below T c was not observed in the U-based superconductor UPd 2 Al 3 or UNi 2 Al 3 , where plural 5f electrons are subdivided into localized and itinerant electrons. This is also the case in ferromagnetic superconductors, such as UGe 2 , 26) URhGe, and UCoGe. In contrast, the suppression of the ordered moments below T c can be well understood by the assumption that the same Fermi surfaces contribute to both magnetic ordering and superconductivity with a competitive relationship. In BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 , cylindrical Fermi surfaces, particularly hole Fermi surfaces, are modified to be more three-dimensional, and nesting between hole and electron Fermi surfaces becomes weaker with P substitution, resulting in the suppression of the AFM order. It is considered that the nesting vector becomes distributed and the AFM order (superconductivity) occurs at stronger (weaker) nesting vectors. In this regard, the competitive relationship between the two phases might have a common aspect with that in cuprate superconductors, 34) whose AFM order is induced by the applied strong magnetic field that imposes the vortex lattice. 
The competition between superconductivity and AFM ordering near the phase boundary can be described in terms 
(Color online) (a) Field-swept 31 P-NMR spectra in BaFe 2 (As 0:80 -P 0:20 ) 2 at P $ 2 GPa. (b) Temperature dependence of the averaged internal field hH int i estimated from the second moment of the observed NMR signals at ambient pressure (black dots) and at P $ 2 GPa (diamonds). hH int i increases below T N but decreases below T Ã c at P $ 2 GPa. The broken lines indicate the fitting of the data ranging from T Ã c to T N to the phenomenological formula of cðT N À T Þ with c ¼ 0:04 ð0:04Þ, T N ¼ 73 ð61:0Þ K, and ¼ 0:29 ð0:25Þ for P ¼ 0 ð2Þ GPa. The red curve is the fit with the GL model in the case of homogeneous coexistence 
and B ¼ 8:74 Â 10 À2 K À1 ]. (c) Temperature dependence of ðT 1 T Þ À1 values measured in 0 H ¼ 4:12 T at ambient pressure and in 0 H $ 2:7 T at P $ 2 GPa. of a Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory of coupled order parameters. The homogeneous part of the free energy is given by where Á and M denote the SC and AFM order parameters, respectively. The leading term in the order-parameter competition is characterized by the coefficient , which determines the phase diagram and the character of two phase transitions; SC and AFM states coexist homogeneously with two second-order phase lines for 0 < < ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi u s u m p , but two phases compete and are separated by a first-order transition for > ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi u s u m p . Our experimental results, indicating the homogeneous coexistence and presence of the AFM and SC transitions at different temperatures, conclude that the former (0 < < ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi u s u m p ) condition is realized in BaFe 2 -(As 1Àx P x ) 2 . According to the recent theoretical studies, an extended s-wave (s AE -wave) state, in which the SC gap changes sign between the hole and electron bands, satisfies the 0 < < ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi u s u m p condition and can coexist with an incommensurate SDW state over a much wider range of parameters than a conventional s-wave state. In fact, the temperature dependence of hMi can be fit with the GL expression in the case of homogeneous coexistence, as shown in Figs. 2(b) and 3(b) with red curves. In this sense, our results are consistent with the s AE -wave state. 
In conclusion, our NMR results on BaFe 2 (As 1Àx P x ) 2 reveal the spatial coexistence of AFM and SC states, and the direct coupling between the two order parameters. The coexistence behavior is consistently interpreted by the s AE model. As far as we know, iron-pnictide superconductors with the '122' structure are the first examples that magnetic ordered moments are significantly suppressed by the occurrence of superconductivity, although such coexistence has been expected from theoretical studies. Our results strongly suggest that antiferromagnetism and superconductivity occur at the same Fermi surfaces and compete with each other. 
