Superconductivity and Quantum Criticality in CeCoIn 5
Electrical resistivity measurements on a single crystal of the heavy-fermion superconductor CeCoIn5 at pressures to 4.2 GPa reveal a strong crossover in transport properties near P * ≈ 1.6 GPa, where Tc is a maximum. The temperature-pressure phase diagram constructed from these data pro- vides a natural connection to cuprate physics, including the possible existence of a pseudogap.
The relationship between unconventional superconduc- tivity and quantum criticality is emerging as an im- portant issue in strongly correlated materials, includ- ing cuprates, organics and heavy-fermion intermetallics . In each of these, either Nature or an externally imposed parameter, such as pressure or chemical substi- tutions, tunes some magnetic order to a T = 0 transi- tion where quantum fluctuations introduce new excita- tions that control thermodynamic and transport proper- ties over a broad range of temperature-parameter phase space. A frequent, but controversial , assumption is that these same excitations may mediate Cooper pair- ing in the anisotropic superconductivity that appears in the vicinity of a quantum-critical point (QCP). In- deed, the effective potential generated by proximity to a quantum-critical spin-density wave also can lead to anisotropic superconductivity.
Though the issue of quantum criticality and super- conductivity came to prominence in the context of the cuprates (see, eg ), there have been several recent ex- amples of this interplay in heavy-fermion compounds . Like the cuprates, unconventional superconductivity in these Ce-based heavy-fermion materials develops out of a distinctly non-Fermi-liquid normal state that evolves in proximity to a continuous T = 0 antiferromagnetic transition; but unlike the cuprates, this state can be ac- cessed cleanly by applied hydrostatic pressure and with- out introducing extrinsic disorder associated with chemi- cal substitutions. In addition to chemical inhomogeneity in the cuprates, a further 'complication' is the existence of a pseudogap state above T c for dopings less than opti- mal . Whether evolution of the pseudogap with dop- ing produces another QCP near the optimal T c in the cuprates is an open question as is the origin of the pseu- dogap . Thus far, a pseudogap has not been detected in canonical quantum-critical heavy-fermion systems, such as CeIn 3 or CePd 2 Si 2 under pressure, but this may not be too surprising. In these cases, superconductivity ap- pears only at very low temperatures, less than 0.4 K, and over a narrow window of pressures (≤ 0.8 GPa) centered around the pressure where T N extrapolates to zero. In analogy to the cuprates, we would expect a pseudogap in these Ce compounds to exist only over a narrow temper- ature window, 0.1 − 0.2 K above T c, and in a fraction of the narrow pressure window, which certainly would make detection of a pseudogap difficult.
CeCoIn 5 offers the possibility of making a connec- tion between other Ce-based heavy-fermion materials and the cuprates. Bulk, unconventional superconduc- tivity is present in CeCoIn 5 at atmospheric pressure and develops out of a heavy-fermion nor- mal state in which the resistivity is approximately linear in temperature. Application of a magnetic field suffi- cient to quench superconductivity reveals a specific heat diverging as −T ln T and associated low-temperature en- tropy consistent with its huge zero-field specific heat jump at T c (∆C/γT c = 4.5). Together, these proper- ties suggest that CeCoIn 5 may be near an antiferromag- netic quantum-critical point at P = 0. Its isostructural, antiferromagnetic relative CeRhIn 5 becomes a pressure- induced unconventional superconductor near 1.6 GPa, with a T c = 2.1 K close to that of CeCoIn 5 at P = 0 . This and other similarities between CeCoIn 5 at P = 0 and CeRhIn 5 at P = 1.6 GPa reinforce specula- tion that the nearby antiferromagnetic QCP in CeCoIn 5 may be at an inaccessible slightly negative pres- sure. The 1.7% smaller cell volume of CeCoIn 5 compared to that of CeRhIn 5 is consistent with this view. We have studied the effect of pressure on the electrical resistivity and superconductivity of CeCoIn 5 and find striking cor- relations between them that are reminiscent of cuprate behaviors.
Four-probe AC resistivity measurements, with current flowing in the tetragonal basal plane, were made on a single crystal of CeCoIn 5 grown from excess In flux. Hy- drostatic pressures to 5 GPa were generated in a toroidal anvil cell in which a boron-epoxy gasket surrounds a teflon capsule filled with a glycerol-water mixture (3:2 volume ratio) that served as the pressure transmitting fluid. Pressure inside the capsule was determined at room temperature and at low temperatures from the pressure- dependent electrical resistivity and T c of Pb, respectively . The width of superconducting transition of Pb did not exceed 15 mK, indicating good hydrostatic conditions and providing an estimate of the pressure-measurement uncertainty, ±0.04 GPa.
The response of ρ(T ) to pressure over a broad temper- ature scale is typical of many Ce-based heavy-
Effect of pressure on the low-temperature resistivity and superconducting Tc of CeCoIn5. The inset shows the resistivity ρ normalized by ρ(T + c ) up to 10 K.
fermion compounds and reflects a systematic increase in the energy scale of spin fluctuations. Most interesting is the low-temperature response (where T c and the resistivity just above T c (ρ(T + c ) decrease rapidly with pressures P > 1.35 GPa. We have analyzed the low tem- perature resistivity, plotted over a broader temperature scale in the inset of , by either fitting to a form ρ(T ) = ρ 0 + AT n , with ρ 0 , A and n fitting parameters, or from plots of (ρ(T ) − ρ 0 )/T n . A drawback to the for- mer approach is that parameters can be sensitive to the temperature range chosen for fitting. The more sensitive and revealing approach is the latter in which ρ 0 and n are adjusted to give the best horizontal line. This procedure requires one less parameter, A, which is provided directly by the magnitude of (ρ(T ) − ρ 0 )/T n . Representative ex- amples of this approach are plotted in . Parameters obtained from these plots are well defined and agree, typ- ically to 10% or better, with parameter values extracted from straightforward fits. As indicated by arrows on the lowest pressure curve in , (ρ(T ) − ρ 0 )/T n deviates from the horizontal trend at a temperature T pg well above the onset of superconductivity. This departure implies either a decrease in the scattering rate or increase in car- rier density. Resistivity measurements at P = 0 and in a magnetic field (6 T) greater than H c2 (0) find a sim- ilar departure of (ρ(T ) − ρ 0 )/T n from a T -independent curve at T pg =3 K. Thus, T pg does not originate from su- perconducting fluctuations or from trace amounts of free indium. We also note that this behavior was present in previous measurements on other single crystals CeCoIn 5 but was missed in inspections of ρ versus T curves . We will return to a discussion of T pg later.
Values of ρ 0 , n and A obtained from these plots are summarized in and b. There is an unmis- takable crossover in the pressure dependence of ρ 0 and
Representative plots of (ρ(T ) − ρ0)/T n vs T . At low pressures, (ρ(T ) − ρ0)/T n is constant from Tpg ≈ (1.15 ± 0.05)Tc to about 10 K. At the higher pressures, there is a well-defined range below TF The resistive onset of superconductivity, defined by the intersection of linear extrapolations of ρ(T ) from above and below Tc, is denoted by dashed vertical arrows. At the highest pressures, the gradual rounding just above Tc is due to a broadened transition (see ) and not to Tpg
n at P * ≈ 1.6 GPa. Below P * , n = 1.0 ± 0.1 for T pg ≤ T ≤ 10 K. This value of n is expected for a 2- dimensional, antiferromagnetic quantum-critical system and is not too surprising given the layered crys- tal structure and anisotropy in electronic states of CeCoIn 5 . At pressures greater than P * , n rapidly approaches the Fermi-liquid value of 2.0, which holds from just above T c to T F L (see ). Though not shown in either or 3a, at these higher pressures n assumes a value of 1.5±0.1, characteristic of a 3-D antifer- romagnetic QCP, in a temperature interval from slightly greater than T F L to as high as ∼ 60 K. For P ≥ P * , ρ 0 decreases reversibly by an order of magnitude to a very small value of about 0.2 µΩcm. Clearly, pressure does not remove impurities from the sample; the large decrease in ρ 0 must be due to a pressure-induced change in inelas- tic scattering processes. Theories of electronic transport in quantum-critical systems show that impurity scattering can be strongly enhanced by quantum-critical fluctuations. This sensitivity provides a natural expla- nation for a decrease in scattering with increasing pres- sure, if there is a crossover near P * from quantum-critical (P < P * ) to a Fermi-liquid-like state for (P > P * ). Such a crossover is suggested by the pressure variation of n.
Experimental values of the T n -coefficient of resistiv- ity, plotted in , also decrease strongly with in- creasing pressure for P < ∼ P * . For comparison, we show
(a) Values of ρ0 and n obtained from plots as shown in Fig. 2. (b) Temperature coefficient of resistivity, A, associated with values of n given in the top panel, and specific heat coefficient γ measured directly (P < 1.5 GPa) and, for P > 2 GPa , inferred from the T 2 coefficient of ρ(T ). See text for details. (c) Superconducting transition width normalized by Tc. ∆Tc and Tc are the half-width of the resistive transition width and resistive midpoint, respectively. Solid lines in all cases are guides to the eye.
the variation of the electronic specific heat divided by temperature (C/T ≡ γ) at 3 K for pressures less than 1.5 GPa and, at higher pressures, we plot values of γ inferred from the empirical relationship A = 1 × 10 −5 γ 2 , where A is the T 2 -coefficient of resistivity, followed by several heavy-fermion compounds . Though a T 2 coefficient proportional to γ 2 is expected for a Landau Fermi-liquid , it is not obvious a priori why A(P ) ap- proximately tracks the directly measured γ at low pres- sures, but this seems to be the case. In any event, both A(P ) and γ(P ) exhibit qualitatively different magnitudes and functional dependencies above and below P * . The dramatic differences in γ(P ) at low and high pressures suggest that either the empirical relationship is invalid and underestimates γ in the high-pressure regime by at least two orders of magnitude or there is a very rapid crossover in the density of low-energy excitations in the vicinity of P * . In the Fermi-liquid-like state above P * , we would expect the temperature scale T F L (see
(a) Temperature-pressure phase diagram for CeCoIn5 constructed from data shown in Figs. 2 and 3. (b) Schematic T −P phase diagram. AFM: Néel state; PG: pseudogap state; SC: unconventional superconducting state; FL: Fermi liquid; NFL: non-Fermi-liquid. See text for details.
to be proportional to A −0.5 instead of the approximate T F L ∝ √ A found experimentally. We do not understand this discrepancy. Direct measurements of C/T at pres- sures above P * would be valuable.
Finally, we note that the resistive transition to the su- perconducting state is equally sensitive to the crossover at P * . As shown in , the relative transition width ∆T c /T c passes through a pronounced minimum near P * . To some extent this behavior is accentuated by the pres- sure variation of T c, but ∆T c itself is a minimum near P * . It is as if the optimally homogeneous state is singular in the vicinity of P * .
From the data presented above, we construct a temperature-pressure phase diagram for CeCoIn 5 given in . This phase diagram is more like that of the cuprates around optimal doping than the canonical behavior of heavy-fermion systems exemplified, for ex- ample, by CeIn 3 or CePd 2 Si 2 . There is no obvious long-range ordered state in CeCoIn 5 at atmospheric or higher pressures. Rather, in view of its relationship to CeRhIn 5 , a reasonable speculation is that the antiferro- magnetic QCP of CeCoIn 5 is at a slightly negative pres- sure. The resistivity exponent n and specific heat (ref. ) are those of a non-Fermi-liquid up to P * where T c is a maximum. Beyond P * , T c drops rapidly and param- eters characterizing electronic transport are qualitatively different, Fermi-liquid-like at temperatures just above T c and those of a 3-D quantum-critical antiferromagnetic state at higher temperatures.
The generic T −P phase diagram in provides a broader perspective of our experimental observations and their relationship to CeRhIn 5 . In the spirit of this diagram, the non-Fermi-liquid transport and thermody- namic properties of CeCoIn 5 below P * are controlled by an antiferromagnetic QCP at the inaccessible nega- tive pressure denoted by P c in . We have chosen P c to correspond approximately to the critical pressure at which superconductivity appears in CeRhIn 5 . Spin- lattice relaxation measurements on CeRhIn 5 identify [28] a pseudogap whose signature first appears at pressures slightly less than P c and at a temperature of ∼5 K and then decreases toward T c with increasing pressure until its signature is lost at P > ∼ P c . If we associate the tem- perature T pg (P ) in with a resistive signature for a pseudogap and extrapolate T pg (P ) in CeCoIn 5 to slightly negative pressures, there is a natural connection between our observations and properties of CeRhIn 5 . Neither the 1/T 1 T measurements on CeRhIn 5 nor our transport measurements on CeCoIn 5 permits definitive statements about the origin or nature of the pseudogap . We note, however, that 4-fold anisotropy of the thermal con- ductivity in the basal plane of CeCoIn 5 persists [12] to 3.2 K ≈ T pg at atmospheric pressure. If this in-plane modulation of the normal-state thermal conductivity is due to the presence of a pseudogap, it implies d-wave symmetry.
The schematic phase diagram, , reflects the rela- tionship among various phases of CeCoIn 5 and CeRhIn 5 and is similar to the T -doping phase diagram of the cuprates. This diagram and experimental data from which it is inferred indicate that the physics of heavy- fermion systems may be more closely related to that of the cuprates than previously appreciated. Aside from the structural layering in CeCoIn 5 and CeRhIn 5 and their relatively high T c's, they are similar in many respects to other Ce-based heavy-fermion materials in which su- perconductivity develops near a QCP. Further study of CeCoIn 5 , in parallel with the cuprates and other pressure-induced heavy-fermion superconductors, holds promise for bridging our understanding of the inter- relationship between unconventional superconductivity and quantum criticality across these interesting classes of correlated matter.