Role of pair-breaking and phase fluctuations in c-axis tunneling in underdoped Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ
The Josephson Plasma Resonance is used to study the c-axis supercurrent in the superconducting state of under- doped Bi2Sr2CaCu2O 8+δ with varying degrees of controlled point-like disorder, introduced by high-energy electron irradiation. As disorder is increased, the Josephson Plasma frequency decreases proportionally to the critical tem- perature. The temperature dependence of the plasma frequency does not depend on the irradiation dose, and is in quantitative agreement with a model for quantum fluctuations of the superconducting phase in the CuO2 layers.
Disorder, Interlayer coupling, Josephson Plasma Resonance, Quantum fluctuations
From the d-wave symmetry of the order pa- rameter of cuprate superconductors, one expects an enhanced sensitivity of c-axis transport in the superconducting state to disorder, due to the en- hancement of the quasiparticle density of states along the gap node directions, and due to impurity assisted hopping . Both mechanisms lead to as yet unobserved T 2 -dependences of the c-axis superfluid density ρ c s at low T , with coefficients that strongly depend on the scattering rate Γ. On the other hand, underdoped cuprates are sufficiently disordered for (quantum) fluctuations of the order parameter phase to play a prominent role , leading to a T - linear behavior of ρ c s . Here, we report on the effect of controlled point disorder on interlayer tunneling of Cooper pairs in underdoped Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ.
Single-crystalline rods of underdoped Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ were grown using the travel- ling solvent floating zone technique under 25 mBar oxygen partial pressure . The samples used for the study, with T c ≈ 70 K, were cleaved from the same crystalline piece. The crystals were then ir- radiated with 2.5 MeV electrons using the van der Graaf accelerator of the Laboratoire des Solides Irradiés. The irradiation produces homogeneously distributed Frenkel pairs, which have previously been identified as strong scattering centers .
The Josephson Plasma Resonance (JPR) fre- quency f JP R of the crystals was then measured using the cavity perturbation technique, exploiting T M 01n harmonic modes to access different frequen- cies , and the bolometric technique using a waveg-
Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ crystals, normalized to the JPR fre- quency at T → 0, versus reduced temperature.
uide in the T E 01 travelling wave mode . The latter technique allows for swept-frequency mea- surements, necessary to elucidate the weak f JP R (T ) dependence at low T . Note that f 2 JP R is propor- tional to the c-axis critical current j c c and to the c-axis superfluid density: , with ǫ r the low-frequency dielec- tric constant and λ c is the c-axis penetration depth.
Sharp JPR resonant peaks were measured for all samples under study. Both T c and f JP R (T → 0) decrease with irradiation dose. The sensitivity of f JP R to even weak additional disorder contradicts the model of coherent interlayer Cooper pair tun- neling . Within the framework of a d-wave BCS model, the measured proportionality between f 2
and T c can be understood as resulting either from (i) the dependence of the interlayer Josephson cur- rent j c c ∝ ∆σ qp on the gap magnitude ∆ and the quasiparticle conductivity σ qp , or (ii) from the decrease of the in-plane superfluid density due to strong phase fluctuations.
The origin of the temperature and disorder- dependence of f JP R can be pinpointed using . Normalising all results to f JP R (T → 0) and plotting these versus reduced temperature, re- veals a common T -dependence independent of disor- der. This contradicts the prediction of Ref. that ρ s should follow different powers of T depending on the ratio of T , ∆, and Γ. However, it agrees with a dominant role of quantum phase fluctuations. Then,
Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ crystals, plotted as 1−f 2 J P R (T )/f 2 J P R (0) in order to bring out the low temperature T -dependence. The line is a fit to Eq. 1 with parameters as indicated.
where α = (∂ε 0 s/∂T ) T →0 , ε 0 = Φ 0 /4πµ 0 λ 2 ab with λ ab the in-plane penetration depth, s is the CuO 2 layer spacing, and σ = σs is the CuO 2 plane sheet conductivity . The temperature dependence of the JPR frequency arises from the temperature of the in- plane phase stiffness ε 0 . shows that Eq. (1) describes the results very satisfactorily.
Summarizing, the temperature-and disorder de- pendence of the c-axis Cooper pair tunnel current in underdoped Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ is well described assuming a strong effect of quantum phase fluctua- tions. A d-wave model without fluctuations cannot account for the T -dependence of c-axis coupling.