Magnetic Penetration Depth Measurements of Pr 2−x Ce x CuO 4−δ Films on Buffered Substrates: Evidence for a Nodeless Gap
We report measurements of the inverse squared magnetic penetration depth, λ −2 (T ), in Pr2−xCexCuO 4−δ (0.115 ≤ x ≤ 0.152) superconducting films grown on SrTiO3 (001) substrates coated with a buffer layer of insulating Pr2CuO4. λ −2 (0), Tc and normal-state resistivities of these films indicate that they are clean and homogeneous. Over a wide range of Ce doping, 0.124 ≤ x ≤ 0.144, λ −2 (T ) at low T is flat: it changes by less than 0.15% over a factor of 3 change in T , indicating a gap in the superconducting density of states. Fits to the first 5% decrease in λ −2 (T ) produce values of the minimum superconducting gap in the range of 0.29 ≤ ∆min/kBTc ≤ 1.01.
It is still a puzzle whether pairing symmetry in n-type cuprates is d wave or not. Re- cently, novel concepts on pairing symmetry of n-and p-type cuprates have come forward: a possible transition in pairing symmetry and/or a mixed symmetry order parameter. Our previous work in- volved La 2−x Ce x CuO 4−δ (LCCO) and Pr 2−x Ce x CuO 4−δ (PCCO) films grown directly on SrTiO 3 substrates. We found that at low Ce doping levels, λ −2 (T ) at low T was quadratic in T , but at higher dopings, λ −2 (T ) showed ac- tivated behavior. These results suggested a d-to s-wave pairing transition near optimal doping, as was also sug- gested by tunneling experiments on PCCO films. We have subsequently improved film quality by eliminating the interface between the film and substrate, by grow- ing PCCO films onto Pr 2 CuO 4 (PCO)/SrTiO 3 instead of directly onto SrTiO 3 . The insulating PCO layer is thought to lessen lattice mismatch between PCCO film and SrTiO 3 substrate, so that these films should be more homogeneous through their thickness. In fact, their nor- mal state resistivities are somewhat lower than those of unbuffered PCCO films for the same doping, x. T c 's at optimal doping in the two film families are the same, T c ≃ 24 K.
Films were prepared by molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE) on 10 mm × 10 mm × 0.35 mm SrTiO 3 substrates as detailed elsewhere. The same growth procedures and parameters were used for all films. For all films, PCCO and PCO layers are 750Å and 250Å thick, re- spectively. Ce concentrations, x, are measured to better than ±0.005 by inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy. X-ray rocking curves show full-width at half maximum of (006) reflection for all films to be less than 0.4 • , which implies that the films are highly c-axis oriented.
The penetration depth, λ(T ), was measured down to T ≃ 0.5 K using a mutual inductance apparatus, de- scribed in detail elsewhere, in a He 3 refrigerator. The system temperature was measured with a Cernox re- sistor (LakeShore Inc.) and its reliability, below 1 K, was confirmed by measuring the superconducting transition temperature of a Zn plate, T c = 0.875 K.
Each film was centered between drive and pick-up coils with diameters of ∼ 1 mm. A small current at 50 kHz in the drive coil induced diamagnetic screening currents in the film, i.e., parallel to the CuO 2 planes. The time derivative of the net magnetic field from drive coil and induced current in the film was measured as a voltage across the pick-up coil. The real and imaginary parts of the mutual inductance are proportional to the quadra- ture and in-phase components of ac voltage, respectively. Because the coils were much smaller than the film, the ap- plied field was concentrated near the center of the films, and demagnetizing effects at the film perimeter were not relevant. Because films were thinner than λ, the cur- rent density induced in the films was essentially uniform through the film thickness. Nonlinear effects occur only very close to T c where λ −2 is less than 1% of its value at T = 0. All data presented here represent linear response.
The procedure to extract λ −2 (T ) from the measured mutual inductance is the following. First, a constant background mutual inductance due to stray couplings between drive and pickup circuits is subtracted from raw data. This background is the measured mutual induc- tance at 4.2 K with the sample replaced by a 100 micron- thick superconducting Pb foil with identical shape and area. No magnetic field passes through the Pb foil. A glass shim ensures that the spacing between coils is the same as with the real sample. The adjusted data are nor- malized to the mutual inductance measured above T c , at T ∼ 30 K, where the film is utterly transparent to the ac field. Normalization reduces uncertainties associated with amplifier gains and nonideal aspects of the coil wind- ings. A numerical model of the drive and pick-up coils enables us to convert the subtracted and normalized mu- tual inductance to sheet conductivity:
where µ 0 is the magnetic perme- ability of vacuum and ω is the angular frequency of the
ab-plane resistivities, ρ ab (T ), of buffered Pr2−xCexCuO 4−δ films. For resistivities at T = 25 K, see . Inset: ρ ab (T ) around Tc.
drive current. The absolute accuracy of λ −2 is limited by ±10% uncertainty in d. The T dependence of λ −2 is unaffected by this uncertainty.
Except for differences in the flatness of λ −2 at low T , which is the focal point of this paper, buffered films are very much like unbuffered films reported earlier. shows in-plane resistivity, ρ ab (T ), for buffered PCCO films. ρ ab in the normal state decreases smoothly and monotonically with Ce doping, x, even for small changes in x, implying that the main difference among films is Ce content. If there were random variations in degree of epitaxy, structural defects, etc., then resistivity would not be such a smooth function of x. These resistivities are slightly smaller than for PCCO films without buffer layers, and significantly lower than for NCCO and PCCO crystals. The inset of shows that resistive transitions are reasonably sharp, and that T c is a weak function of Ce concentration, although resistivity is not. summarizes properties of the films.
Fluctuations cause σ 1 (T ) to peak at the superconduct- ing transition. Hence, σ 1 (T ) is a much more stringent test of film quality than resistivity. For example, if T c varies through the film thickness, resistivity reveals only the highest T c . Because our probing magnetic field passes through the film, σ 1 (T ) has a peak at the T c of every layer. Transitions associated with small bad spots in the film, as opposed to an entire film layer, are distinguished by their having essentially no effect on the superfluid re- sponse, σ 2 . When a layer goes superconducting there is a distinct change in the slope of λ −2 (T ). σ 1 (T )'s of buffered PCCO films show that sev- eral of them have a double transition, reflected as shoul- der (x = 0.115, 0.124, and 0.137) or satellite (x = 0.144 and 0,152) structure of peaks. We define two transition temperatures, T c1 and T c2 , from peaks in σ 1 (T ), where T c1 > T c2 . The resistive T c is always at the onset of the
σ1(T ) at 50 kHz in buffered Pr2−xCexCuO 4−δ films. Inset: σ1(T ) for the film with x = 0.115.
λ −2 (T ) for buffered Pr2−xCexCuO 4−δ films. Film- to-film uncertainty in λ −2 (0) is ∼ ±10%.
T c1 -peak. For the films most important to the conclu- sions of this paper, 0.124 ≤ x ≤ 0.144, the width of the T c1 peak, ∆T c1 , is ≤ 1 K, indicating excellent film ho- mogeneity. The peak at T c2 most likely involves a bad spot in the film, since there is no corresponding feature in the slope of λ −2 (T ), (see ). Accordingly, the lower transition is neglected in our analysis. Films with high- est and lowest Ce concentrations (x = 0.115 and 0.152) have broader transition widths (∆T c = 2.4 ∼ 3.9 K) than other films, perhaps because T c is more sensitive to x. shows λ −2 (T ) for all films. λ −2 (0) vs. x increases rapidly for x ≤ 0.133, and it is constant or decreases slowly for x > 0.133. Values of λ −2 (0) are slightly higher than for unbuffered films. The surprising upward curvature that develops in λ −2 (T ) near T c at high Ce concentrations was also observed in unbuffered LCCO and PCCO films.
In our previous work on unbuffered PCCO films, films with low Ce concentrations showed quadratic (T 2 ) behavior in λ −2 (T ) at low T . Films with high Ce con- centrations showed gap-like behavior: where C ∞ and D are adjustable parameters, and t = T /T c . In the clean limit, D is approximately the mini- mum gap on the Fermi surface, normalized to k B T c , and C ∞ is roughly twice the average superconducting den- sity of states (DOS) over energies within k B T of the gap edge. For isotropic BCS superconductors, the best-fit value of C ∞ /2 is about 2.2. The change in low-T behav- ior of λ −2 (T ) near optimal doping suggested a transition in pairing symmetry.
We now turn to the low-T behavior of λ −2 (T ) for buffered PCCO films, shown on a greatly expanded scale in . The most important thing to notice is that λ −2 (T ) is flat to better than 0.15% over a factor of 3 or more change in T . Residual variations in λ −2 (T ) at the 0.1% level are due, at least in part, to slow drift in the gain of the lock-in amplifiers used to measure current and voltage. These data are incompatible with simple d- wave models with nodes in the gap. Thus, except for the most underdoped and overdoped films (x = 0.115 and 0.152), λ −2 (T ) shows gapped behavior. Recent angle- resolved photoemission spectroscopy measurements in- dicate well-defined quasiparticle states on the Fermi sur- face where the d x 2 −y 2 node would be, so the gapped be- havior that we observed could not be ascribed to a Fermi surface effect.
To estimate the gap, we fit Eq. (1) to the first ∼ 5% drop in λ −2 (T ), (thin solid lines in . It comes as no surprise that quadratic fits over the same temperature range are unacceptable (dashed lines). For films with x = 0.115 and 0.152, data at T < 0.5 K are needed to distin- guish between T 2 and e −D/t . Values of the minimum gap, ∆ min = Dk B T c and average DOS, C ∞ /2, extracted from the above exponential fits are presented in . D val- ues are significantly lower than the BCS weak-coupling- limit value, 1.76, for s-wave superconductors (2.14 for d-wave superconductors). D is largest, D ∼ 1, for x near 0.13. A similar value, D ≃ 0.85, was found for unbuffered PCCO films with the same Ce concentration. Values of C ∞ /2 (≪ 1) are also much smaller than for weak- coupling isotropic s wave. This implies existence of a peak in the DOS for a certain E (> ∆ min ), because the states should be conserved.
The next question is: where is the peak in the DOS, i.e., how big is the maximum gap, ∆ max , on the Fermi surface? To answer this question, we employ a model anisotropic gap function and the clean-limit result that 1 − λ −2 (T )/λ −2 (0) is an integral of quasiparticle DOS times the derivative of the Fermi function with respect to energy. shows a good fit to λ −2 (T ) for film with x = 0.131 using the DOS in the inset. In this fit, the minimum gap was fixed at the value found by fitting
Expanded view of λ −2 (T ) at low T for buffered Pr2−xCexCuO 4−δ films. Thin solid and dashed lines denote best fits of λ −2 (0)[1−C∞ exp(−D/t)] and λ −2 (0)[1−(T /T0) 2 ] to the first 5% drop in λ −2 (T ), respectively.
the low-T data, i.e., ∆ min /k B T c = 0.99. Then, as one can see in inset of Fig. 5, the average DOS within ∼ k B T of the minimum gap edge agrees well with C ∞ /2 = 0.5 from . For film with x = 0.131, ∆ max is about 2.6k B T c (±15%).
We emphasize that we cannot say anything about the shape of the peak in the DOS, only its location. An equally acceptable fit, with a similar peak energy, is ob- tained even when the sharp narrow peak in the inset of is replaced by a rectangular peak.
In summary, we measured the inverse squared magnetic penetration depth, λ −2 (T ), of several Pr 2−x Ce x CuO 4−δ films on buffered Pr 2 CuO 4 /SrTiO 3 substrates down to T /T c < 0.03. Overall, the resistivities and penetration depths were similar to films grown di- rectly on SrTiO 3 . However, for PCCO films on buffered substrates, λ −2 (T ) at low T exhibits gapped behavior over a wide range of Ce doping, including underdoping. This implies a superconducting gap without nodes on the Fermi surface. Values of the minimum superconducting gap for the films are in range of 0.3 ≤ ∆ min /k B T c ≤ 1.0. We cannot distinguish among models with various gap symmetries, e.g., anisotropic s, s + id, or d + id.
λ −2 (T ) for Pr1.869Ce0.131CuO 4−δ film. Gray line shows an excellent fit obtained with density of states shown in the inset. Inset: Quasiparticle density of states in s + id x 2 −y 2 gap symmetry.
Properties of eight MBE-grown Pr2−xCexCuO 4−δ films on Pr2CuO4/SrTiO3. Tc (or Tc1) and Tc2 are locations of main and secondary peaks in σ1(T ), respectively. ∆Tc is full width of the (main) peak in σ1(T ). ρ ab (25 K) is the ab-plane resistivity at T = 25 K. λ −2 (0), C∞/2, and D = ∆min/kB Tc are fit parameters, in Eq. (1).