"Spin-Flop" Transition and Anisotropic Magnetoresistance in Pr 1.3−x La 0.7 Ce x CuO 4: Unexpectedly Strong Spin-Charge Coupling in Electron-Doped Cuprates
We use transport and neutron-scattering measurements to show that a magnetic-field-induced transition from noncollinear to collinear spin arrangement in adjacent CuO2 planes of lightly electron-doped Pr1.3−xLa0.7CexCuO4 (x = 0.01) crystals affects significantly both the in-plane and out-of-plane resistivity. In the high-field collinear state, the magnetoresistance (MR) does not saturate, but exhibits an intriguing four-fold-symmetric angular dependence, oscillating from being positive at B [100] to being negative at B [110]. The observed MR of more than 30% at low tem- peratures induced by a modest modification of the spin structure indicates an unexpectedly strong spin-charge coupling in electron-doped cuprates.
High-T c superconductivity (SC) in cuprates emerges as the parent antiferromagnetic (AF) insulator is doped with charge carriers, either holes or electrons. Despite this apparent symmetry with respect to doping, it still remains unclear whether the mechanism of SC in both cases is the same. It is generally believed that in the hole-doped cuprates, the SC pairing originates from an interplay between the doped holes and AF spin correla- tions. Indeed, many observations, including a fast sup- pression of the Néel order by doped holes which results in the "spin-glass" state , and a strong tendency to form spin-charge textures -"stripes" , point to a very strong coupling between the charge and spin degrees of freedom.
The behavior of doped electrons looks, however, much different. Electron doping suppresses the AF order at vir- tually the same slow rate as the substitution of magnetic Cu 2+ ions with non-magnetic Zn 2+ , and does not induce any incommensurability in the spin correlations . This has been taken as evidence that the electrons merely dilute the spin system . Apparently, if the charge transport and spin correlations are actually de- coupled in the electron-doped cuprates, the SC pairing should have a non-magnetic origin as well. A recent dis- covery of the magnetic-field induced AF order in super- conducting Nd 2−x Ce x CuO 4 has shown, however, that antiferromagnetism and superconductivity may be closely related in these compounds.
To probe the spin-charge coupling, one can determine how the charge transport responds to such relatively weak changes in the spin structure as spin-flop or meta- magnetic transitions. In hole-doped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 , for instance, the conductivity changes by up to several times . In this Letter, we use neutron scat- tering and magnetoresistance (MR) measurements to study the effect of magnetic field on the spin structure and anisotropic conductivity of lightly electron-doped Pr 1.3−x La 0.7 Ce x CuO 4 (PLCCO) single crystals. We find that both the in-plane and out-of-plane resistivity (ρ ab and ρ c ) are surprisingly sensitive to spin reorientation, with ∆ρ ab /ρ ab exceeding 30% at low temperatures -the same scale as in hole-doped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4. This re- sult indicates that in electron-doped cuprates the charge transport exhibits a similar degree of coupling to mag- netism as in the hole-doped ones, and therefore the su- perconductivity in both systems may have a universal origin.
High-quality PLCCO single crystals with x = 0.01 (mosaicity < 1 • ) were grown by the traveling-solvent floating-zone technique and annealed at ≈ 860 • C in pure argon to remove excess oxygen. The partial sub- stitution of Pr with La was used to stabilize the crys- tal growth, without introducing significant lattice distor- tions . Neutron scattering measurements were per- formed on the BT-2 and SPINS triple-axis spectrome- ters at the NIST Center for Neutron Research. We la- bel wavevectors Q = (q x , q y , q z ) inÅ −1 as (H, K, L) = (q x a/2π, q y a/2π, q z c/2π) in the reciprocal lattice units (r.l.u.) suitable for the tetragonal unit cell of PLCCO (space group I4/mmm, a = 3.964 and c = 12.28Å are in-plane and out-of-plane lattice paramters, respec- tively). In this notation, [100]/[010] and [110]/[110] are along the Cu-O-Cu bond direction and the diagonal Cu-Cu direction, respectively. The experimental details are described in Refs. .
Resistivity measurements were carried out by the ac four-probe method on the same crystal used for neu- tron measurements. It was cut and polished into suitable shapes: 3.1 × 1 × 0.45 mm 3 for ρ ab and ≈ 1 × 1 × 1 mm 3 for ρ c . The MR was measured by sweeping the magnetic
Field-induced transition from noncollinear to col- linear spin arrangement in Pr2CuO4. (a) Zero-filed non- collinear spin structure; only Cu spins are shown. (b) -(c) Collinear spin-flop states induced by (b) a magnetic field ap- plied along the Cu-Cu direction; (c) a magnetic field tilted from [010]; and (d) B [010].
field between ±14 T at fixed temperatures stabilized by a capacitance sensor with an accuracy of ∼ 1 mK.
The peculiar spin structure of Pr 2 CuO 4 (PCO) is in- teresting in its own right. While a strong intraplane ex- change drives the AF spin ordering within CuO 2 planes, all the isotropic exchange interactions between the planes are perfectly canceled out due to the body-centered tetragonal crystal symmetry. The three-dimensional or- dering [] that sets in below the Néel temperature T N = 250 − 285 K is governed by weak pseu- dodipolar (PD) interactions, which favor a noncollinear orientation of spins in adjacent planes (alternating along the [100] and [010] directions) . A unique feature of the interplane PD interaction is that its energy does not change if the spin sublattices of adjacent CuO 2
(a) Temperature dependence of the Cu 2+ and Pr 3+ moments in PLCCO (x = 0.01). (b) Integrated intensity of the ( 1 2 , 1 2 , 1) and ( 1 2 , 1 2 , 3) magnetic peaks. The ordered moments are estimated by normalizing the magnetic intensity to the weak (1,1,0) nuclear Bragg peak without considering the absorption and extinction effects . The solid lines are power-law fits describing the contribution of Cu spins .
Intensity (counts/10 sec) , 1) and ( 2 , 1 2 , 2) magnetic peaks at 5 K. (c), (d) Field dependence of the integrated intensity at various temperatures. We note that the critical field for spin-flop transition in PLCCO is lower than that of PCO .
planes rotate in opposite directions . Such a continuous spin rotation can be induced by a magnetic field parallel to Cu-Cu direction, which easily converts the noncollinear structure of into a collinear one with spins along the [110] direction []. Note that while these diagonal directions are hard spin axes in the non-collinear phase, they become the easy axes in the collinear one. A perfectly aligned field B [010] causes a first-order transition directly to the spin-flop phase [], while at intermediate field directions the magnetic field first induces a transition into the collinear phase [], and then smoothly rotates the spins to align them perpendicular to the field .
The neutron diffraction measurements at zero field on the (1/2, 1/2, L) magnetic Bragg peaks (L = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4) show that in our PLCCO (x = 0.01) the Cu 2+ spins order into the same non-collinear structure as in pure PCO, albeit at a somewhat lower T N ≈ 229 K . The reduced T N is probably due to a partial substitution of Pr 3+ with non-magnetic La 3+ , as well as to doped electrons. Similar to PCO , the Pr 3+ ions in PLCCO can be polarized by the ordered Cu 2+ moment. Upon cooling below 100-150 K, the exchange field of the Cu 2+ spins induces a small (up to ∼ 0.1 µ B ) ordered moment
In-plane and out-of-plane resistivity of PLCCO (x = 0.01) single crystals. The MR in ρc (b) and ρ ab (c) measured for the in-plane magnetic field B [110].
on the Pr 3+ ions . shows the effect of a B [110] field on the (1/2, 1/2, 1) and (1/2, 1/2, 2) magnetic peaks at vari- ous temperatures. Upon increasing the magnetic field, the peak intensity changes, indicating a continuous non- collinear to collinear phase transition. Indeed, for the collinear spin arrangement [], the magnetic in- tensity vanishes at (1/2, 1/2, L) with L = 1, 3, 5. As can be seen in Figs. 3(c) and 3(d), the critical field for the non-collinear to collinear ("spin-flop") transition, B c , in- creases from less than 0.5 T at 150 K to ∼2 T at 5 K. In comparison, the first-order spin-flop transition for B [010] was reported to take place at several time larger fields and a c-axis aligned field does not change the noncollinear spin structure .
The transport properties of lightly electron-doped PLCCO differ from those of its hole-doped analog LSCO or YBa 2 Cu 3 O 6+x (YBCO). In contrast to hole-doped cuprates , the doping of 1% of electrons into the CuO 2 planes appears to be insufficient to induce metallic in-plane conduction in PLCCO, and both ρ ab and ρ c grow upon cooling below room temperature []. It is worth noting also that lightly doped PLCCO turns out to be one of the most anisotropic cuprates with ρ c /ρ ab ∼ 8000 at room temperature -an order of mag- nitude larger than in LSCO and YBCO.
In further contrast to hole-doped cuprates , no anomaly is detected at the Néel transition in PLCCO ei- ther in the in-plane or out-of-plane resistivity. At a first glance, this supports the view that the charge motion in electron-doped PLCCO is virtually decoupled from spin correlations, and one therefore would expect the conduc- tivity to ignore the spin reorientation sketched in . Surprisingly, the experiment shows that this is not the case, and instead of being field-independent, both ρ ab and ρ c exhibit a considerable increase upon transi- tion into the collinear state []. We have confirmed that this MR is of the spin origin and contains no orbital terms, since no difference was ob- served in ∆ρ ab /ρ ab for fields applied parallel or perpen- dicular to the current. Moreover, ∆ρ ab /ρ ab and ∆ρ c /ρ c demonstrate a remarkable similarity both in magnitude and in field dependence, in spite of the huge resistivity anisotropy. Finally, no MR anomaly is observed when a c-axis aligned field is applied, consistent with the absence of a spin-flop transition for such field orientation .
The MR behavior in is clearly reminiscent of that in LSCO , though there are two important dif- ferences. First is the sign of the anomalous MR, which is always positive in PLCCO, but negative in LSCO. Sec- ond, the MR features in LSCO and YBCO become dis- cernible as soon as the AF order is established, but in PLCCO they appear at temperatures much lower that T N (at T < 70 − 100 K), and quickly gain strength upon decreasing temperature . The latter indicates that some other factors, such as magnetic moments of Pr 3+ or a structural instability , that come into play at low temperature, may be relevant to the observed MR.
A comparison of the neutron and resistivity data re- veals one more interesting feature, namely, the transi- tions observed by these two probes do not match each other [inset to ]. One can see that the charge transport ignores the initial spin rotation, and the steep- est resistivity variation is observed at B c , where the collinear structure is established. Although B c changes substantially with temperature [], the apparent shift in the transitions holds consistently, with the peak in dρ/dB roughly coinciding with the end of the transi- tion observed by neutron scattering.
As the magnetic field deviates from the Cu-Cu direc- tion [], the spin-flop transition shifts towards higher fields, reaching ultimately B c ∼ 12 T for B [010]; the MR behavior for these two field orientations is com- pared in Figs. 5(b) and 5(c) . It becomes immediately clear from these figures that the step-like increase of the resistivity upon the transition to the collinear state does
(a) The critical field Bc determined from peaks in dρ ab /dB and dρc/dB for B [110]. In the inset to (a), the normalized field dependence of ρc (•) is compared with that of the ( 1 2 , 1 2 , 1)-peak intensity (•). ∆ρ ab /ρ ab (b) and ∆ρc/ρc (c) for two directions of the in-plane magnetic field. The angular dependence of the high-field MR is sketched in the inset to (c).
not make a complete story. Regardless of the field direc- tion within the ab plane, the resistivity exhibits roughly the same increase at the spin-flop transition, but then (at B > B * c ) it keeps changing without any sign of satura- tion [Figs. 5(b) and 5(c)]. Even more surprising is that this high-field MR changes its sign depending on the field direction, as is schematically drawn in the inset to . One can conceive a spin structure upon rotating the high magnetic field within the ab plane in the follow- ing way: the spins always keep the collinear arrangement and rotate as a whole, being almost perpendicular to the magnetic field . Our data show that the resistiv- ity goes down as the spin direction approaches one of the two equivalent spin easy axes (Cu-Cu directions) and in- creases at the spin hard axes (Cu-O-Cu directions) [inset to ]. Note that the resistivity changes are rather large, ∆ρ ab /ρ ab reaches ≈ 18% at T = 5 K and exceeds 32% at 2.5 K, indicating that the magnetic field B [100] can effectively localize the doped electrons.
Apparently, the fascinating MR oscillations in cannot originate from simple "spin-valve" effects, since at high fields the spin structure always stays collinear, and all that changes is the relative orientation of spins with respect to the crystal axes. The MR may be related to 2D spin fluctuations that were found to survive far above B c , as manifested in the diffuse neutron scattering , or to some unusual coupling of the charge trans- port with low-energy spin dynamics. Though the exact mechanism of the revealed MR features still remains to be understood, what is certain is that the charge carriers in electron-doped cuprates appear to have a remarkably strong coupling with the spin order, which should play an important role in determining their physical properties.
Upon preparing this paper, we became aware of similar MR features observed for Pr 1.85 Ce 0.15 CuO 4, which gives evidence that the strong spin-charge coupling sur- vives up to much higher electron-doping levels, that are relevant for the superconducting state.