Thermodynamic and Transport Measurements on Superconducting Na x CoO 2 · yH 2 O Single Crystals Prepared by Electrochemical De-intercalation 
Superconducting single crystal samples of NaxCoO2 · yH2O have been produced using an electrochemical technique which dispenses with the usual bromine chemical de-intercalation step and permits much more precise control of the Na content. After careful hydration, nearly single-phase crystals have been obtained in which over 90% of the sample's volume corresponds to the superconducting Na0.3CoO2 · 1.3H2O structure. Susceptibility and specific heat measurements confirm that bulk superconductivity has been achieved. The extracted normal state density of states indicates Fermi-liquid behavior with strong mass enhancement and a modest Wilson ratio. Measurements of Hc2 for H c and H ab reveal significant anisotropy. The estimated value of Hc2 for H c yields a coherence length of ∼ 100Å, consistent with an extremely narrow bandwidth. 
PACS numbers: PACS numbers: 74.70.-b, 74.62.Bf, 74.25.Bt, 74.25.Fy Sodium cobalt oxide, Na x CoO 2 (x ≈ 0.65 to 0.75), has received considerable attention due to its unusual thermal electric properties.Recent studies have revealed anomalous non-Fermi liquid behavior in transport properties which point to the importance of strong correlations.The cobalt ions form a hexagonal layered structure and the formally 1−x fraction is in the low spin (S = 1 2 ) Co 4+ state, while the x fraction is in the S = 0 Co 3+ state. Interest in this material escalated with the discovery of superconductivity by Takada et al.in Na x CoO 2 · yH 2 O when the sodium concentration is reduced to about 0.3 and water is intercalated between the layers. The ability to control the sodium content is an exciting development because, in principle, the limit of x = 0 corresponds to a Mott insulator on a triangular lattice with S = 1 2 . Then the hydrated compound can be viewed as electron doping of a Mott insulator with a doping concentration x ≈ 0.3. As such, it is the second known example of superconductivity arising from doping a Mott insulator after the high T c cuprates. The S = 1 2 antiferromagnet on a triangular lattice was in fact the starting point of Anderson's resonating valence bond (RVB) idea,and the new superconductor has been interpreted in this light.Until recently, the bulk properties of superconducting Na 0.3 CoO 2 · 1.3H 2 O has been studied mostly using powder samples.Single crystal measurements are much less plentiful, though such measurements are extremely important in order to understand this anisotropic layered compound. In this paper we report a new electrochemical method to extract Na from Na x CoO 2 . This is an alternative to the chemical deintercalation of Na using Br ions introduced by Takada et al.Our electrochemical method permits precise control of the Na content and avoids the environmental hazards associated with the use of high molar concentrations of Br. In addition, we have succeeded in growing large single crystals of Na x CoO 2 by the floating zone (FZ) method. By applying the electrochemical procedure to the FZ crystals, we have obtained superconducting single crystal samples with which we have carried out a variety of physical property measurements. 
The initial Na 0.75 CoO 2 polycrystalline material was prepared using Na 2 CO 3 and Co 3 O 4 with Na to Co ratio at 0.75 to 1. The thoroughly mixed and ground powder was calcined at 750C for 12 hours and then reacted at 850C for 24 hours with frequent grindings in between. Na loss was minimized with a fast-heating method.A stoichiometric Na 0.75 CoO 2 feed rod was melted and re-crystallized with an optical floating-zone furnace (4-Xe lamp design, CSI Japan) under oxygen atmosphere. Although Na vapor loss was observed from the white deposit on the walls of the quartz sample chamber, this loss was minimized by choosing a fast pulling rate. A stable molten zone can be maintained with various pulling rates from 1.5 to 10 mm/hr. Electron probe microscopy analysis (EPMA) indicates the FZ crystal has Na content between 0.71 and 0.74 for a crystal pulled with 2 mm/hr rate. We have grown large single crystals of Na 0.75 CoO 2 (5mm diameter × 8 cm long) successfully with this FZ method. Powder neutron diffraction confirms that the Na level of the FZ crystal is essentially identical to that in the feed rod.A three-electrode electrochemical cell was set up using the Na x CoO 2 sample as a working electrode, platinum foil as a counter electrode, Ag/AgCl as a reference electrode (E 0 = +0.222 V vs. the standard hydrogen electrode), and 1M NaOH as an electrolyte. The proposed half reaction at the anodically polarized Na x CoO 2 electrode responsible for Na extraction is where the generated NaOH becomes dissolved in the electrolyte. Because Na x CoO 2 is metallic, the work- 
The quasi-open circuit potential (OCP) as a function of time during charging of the EC cell. The arrows indicate regions of special stability and are labelled with possible Na concentrations associated with these regions. ing electrode can be prepared directly using a compressed powder or a single crystal sample. Hydrated Na 0.3 CoO 2 · yH 2 O can be prepared by having the sample anodically polarized with a constant voltage (0.6-1.2 V) until the decaying anodic current reaches a constant value. Alternatively, a constant current (of 0.1-10 mA) can be used to achieve the same charge level by waiting until the final open circuit potential reaches ∼ 0.5 V vs. Ag/AgCl. Samples obtained directly from the cell are typically in a mixture of the partially hydrated (c ≃ 13.8Å) and fully hydrated (c ≃ 19.7Å) structures and show only trace amounts of superconductivity. Fully hydrated superconducting crystals can be achieved by sealing the sample in a water vapor saturated container at room temperature. We find that the rate of hydration depends on grain size and several months are required to fully hydrate mm-sized single crystals. The sodium content in each sample was checked by electron probe microanalysis. After electrochemical treatment, our asprepared floating-zone single crystals with x = 0.75 typically break apart into smaller crystals (∼5×5×2 mm) with x ≃ 0.28 − 0.32. 
The quasi-open circuit potential (OCP) was measured as a function of time during a repeated sequence of having a current density of 0.01 A/g turned on (for 100 seconds) and off (for 100 seconds). Here, the quasi OCP is the potential recorded during the time the current is off. We can interpret the OCP measured in this manner as the chemical potential of the surface layer of the sample. In we plot the quasi-OCP vs. time where the charging current density is 0.01 A/g. The time axis is therefore proportional to the total charge supplied to the sample surface. A plateau in the OCP corresponds to two-phase coexistence. We can identify three prominent plateaus in . The last plateau at 0.48 volts indicates a saturation of the Na concentration, at least on the surfaces of the grains of the crystal. Assuming that this saturation level corresponds to Na 1/3 and knowing 
The magnetic susceptibility measured using a SQUID magnetometer with an applied field of 1 Tesla with H ab and H c. Inset: The AC susceptibilities (in-phase χ ′ and out-ofphase χ ′′ ) at low temperatures. that the starting material is Na 0.75 , we have drawn arrows in to indicate the expected Na content with the assumption that the Na extraction is proportional to the charging. The close match of these arrows with the plateaus suggests that stable intermediate phases exist for Na 2/3 and Na 1/2 . We speculate that the special fractions of x ≃ 1 3 , 1 2 , and 2 3 may be indicative of at least partial Na ordering relative to the hexagonal Co structure. The role of Na ordering on the physics of these materials is an important subject for future studies. 
Magnetic susceptibility, specific heat and resistivity have been measured on our superconducting single crystal samples. As shown in , the susceptibility shows a large anisotropy, similar to that reported for Na 0.68 CoO 2 .However, the Curie-Weiss susceptibility that is so prominent there is now absent. The small cusp at 42 K is likely due to a Co 3 O 4 impurity phase, which is known to have an antiferromagnetic transition in the 33 to 46 K range.By comparing the size the magnetization cusp with that for bulk Co 3 O 4 , we estimate that the Co 3 O 4 impurity fraction of our sample is small, at the 1% level. However, we cannot detect the existence of Co 3 O 4 within our x-ray diffraction sensitivity. Apart from this anomaly and the low temperature Curie tail (which arises from only 0.5% of the Co moments), the susceptibility is nearly temperature independent. Note the large magnitude and strong anisotropy. For comparison, the magnitude is about 5 times that of lanthanum strontium cuprate (La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 ) and 30 times that of a simple metal like Na. The anisotropy is probably due to a combination of anisotropy in the g factor and the van Vleck term. AC susceptibility measurements were taken in a field of 3 Gauss/100 Hz as shown in the inset of . The diamagnetic signal is indicative of a superconducting phase with an onset temperature of about 4.2 K, and the screening fraction is estimated to be about 120% (without geometric correction). 
The specific heat of an array of co-aligned single crys-tals (combined mass of 4.7 mg) was measured using a Physical Property Measurement System (Quantum Design) in applied magnetic fields ranging from 0 T to 14 T and temperatures ranging from 0.37 K to 10 K as shown in . The sample had been hydrated for three months after electrochemical de-intercalation, and x-ray diffraction indicates that 94% of the sample consists of the fully hydrated superconducting structure. In zero field, a pronounced peak is observed at 4.2 K, indicating the transition to bulk superconductivity. A second broad peak exists at lower temperature around 1.5 K. In a field of 1 T, the superconducting anomaly at 4.2 K is strongly suppressed; in contrast, the peak at 1.5 K is slightly enhanced. This suggests that the peak around 1.5 K is not related to a second superconducting phase with a lower T c . Such a peak may be compatible with a model of weakly interacting localized Co moments, analogous to the effects seen in impurity-doped semiconductors.In fields larger than 5 T, both peaks disappear and are replaced by a broad enhancement of C/T over a wide range of temperatures. With increasing field, the enhancement of C/T shifts to higher temperatures. In the inset of , the top panel compares the suppression of the superconducting anomaly for H c and H ab. In order to achieve a comparable suppression, an in-plane field with magnitude 5 times that of the the out-of-plane field is required. This reflects the anisotropy of H c2 in the different field orientations and is consistent with our resistivity measurements of H c2 (discussed below). We note that ∆C/T c in zero-field for our single crystal sample is comparable to that reported by other groups in powder samples.The data plotted in the main part of exhibit an upturn at the lowest measured temperatures which increases with increasing field. This is most likely due to a Schottky contribution from the nuclear spins. The bottom panel of the inset shows C/T data at high-fields in which a nuclear Schottky contribution (6.7×10 −6 B 2 /T 2 ) has been subtracted. These data demonstrate that in fields greater than ∼10 T superconductivity is completely suppressed. Hence, 10 T may be taken as an upper limit for H c2 with H ab. 
On different single crystal sample which had a smaller hydrated phase fraction, we had observed an anomaly in the specific heat at T = 6 K. This feature is also noticeable in the powder data of Jin et al.,. We found that this anomaly was insensitive to magnetic fields as large as 14 T. The origin of this anomaly is not clear, and it may be related to another order parameter in the vicinity of the superconducting phase on the phase diagram. 
From our specific heat data, we extract a normal state γ value of 16.6 mJ/K 2 Co-mole. This corresponds to a free electron density of states (DOS) including both spins of 7.09 states/eV. At first sight, this seems to compare well with the LDA band structure result 
of 4.4 states/eV. However, this apparent agreement is misleading because the LDA band consists of 3 overlapping t 2g The specific heat measured on a single crystal plotted as cp/T versus T in various applied magnetic fields. In the top panel of the inset, we plot cp/T versus T 2 showing the suppression of the superconducting anomaly for H c and H ab. In the bottom panel of the inset, we plot cp/T for fields of 10 T and 14 T (a nuclear Schottky contribution has been subtracted). bands whereas the true quasiparticle is expected to form a single band out of the A 1g orbital (symmetric combination of t 2g ), split off from the rest by correlation. A better way is to extract a bandwidth which we estimate to be 1.4 eV. Even though the LDA calculation was done for x = 0.5 and without hydration, the bandwidth should be insensitive to these differences. On the other hand, we can fit the observed DOS to that of the free electron tight binding band on a triangular lattice with hopping matrix element t ef f . With t ef f < 0 and x = 0.35, the tight binding DOS for both spins is 0.16/|t ef f |.The measured DOS then implies that |t ef f | ≈ 23 meV, or a full bandwidth of 9|t ef f | ≈ 0.2 eV, which is a factor of 7 smaller than the LDA bandwith. We therefore conclude that there is a mass enhancement of ∼ 7 compared with band theory. By assuming g = 2, we find that the measured χ c of 3.5 × 10 −4 cm 3 /Co-mole corresponds to a free electron DOS of 10.86 states/eV. This gives a Wilson ratio 4π 2 k 2 /3(gµ B ) 2 χ/γ of 1.53. In case a significant portion of χ comes from the van Vleck term, the Wilson ratio will be even smaller. The combination of susceptibility and specific heat measurements indicate that Na 0.3 CoO 2 ·yH 2 O may be viewed as a Fermi liquid with strong mass enhancement due to correlations. The occurrence of superconductivity in such a narrow band mate- 
Resistivity in the ab plane and along the c axis. Low temperature results for ρc are shown in an expanded scale in the inset. rial suggests an electronic rather than phononic mechanism. Four terminal resistivity measurements on a single crystal are shown in . The zero resistance state is achieved in ρ c and ρ ab at low temperatures below T c ≃ 4.2 K (the inset shows an expanded view of ρ c (T ) near the transition). The large room-to low-temperature resistance ratio (∼40) indicates that the sample is a good metal with large anisotropy between ρ c and ρ ab (growing to 10 4 at low temperatures). The conductance per square at low T of each layer is 50 (e 2 /h), indicative of a long mean free path. The current and voltage leads were attached with silver paste which was allowed to dry in atmosphere for 12 hours. Even though partial dehydration may have occurred during this process, it appears that superconductivity in the single crystal sample, with its smaller surface-to-volume ratio, is more robust than in the powder samples where superconductivity is found to degrade in a matter of minutes.The large peak below 52 K reported by Jin et al.is absent. 
In order to make an estimate of H c2 , we have measured the in-plane resistance R ab versus H at various temperatures as shown in . There are two regimes (at low fields and high fields) where the resistance is roughly proportional to H. We define H c2 as the field at the crossing point of the extrapolation of these regimes. In , we plot H c2 vs. T for both field orientations. There is about a factor of 5 difference in the slopes near T c , consistent with the heat capacity data. The value of H c2 for H ab is consistent with the Pauli paramagnetic limit for pair breaking. From the H c2 vs. T curve for H c, we determine a coherence length of ξ ≈ 100Å. This relatively short coherence length is surprising for a superconductor with such a low T c , but is entirely consistent with the narrow bandwidth. Assuming a parabolic band, the BCS formula for ξ o can be expressed in terms of the DOS ρ(ǫ F ) in the following way: ξ o = vF π∆o = √ 3kF a 2 2π 2 ρ(ǫF )∆o . Using ρ(ǫ F ) = 7.09 eV −1 extracted from specific heat and assuming 2∆ o = 3.52 kT c , we obtain ξ o ≈ 27a ≈ 76Å, 
(a) The in-plane resistance curves R ab (H) measured for temperatures ranging from 2.0 K to 4.2 K. Field orientations with H c and H ab (inset) are measured. (b) Hc2 vs T for both field orientations. in reasonable agreement with the measured value. 
In conclusion, by combining a novel electrochemical method and floating-zone crystal growth we have succeeded in producing high quality single crystals of the hydrated Na x CoO 2 · yH 2 O system which show bulk superconductivity. Our measurements indicate that the low temperature properties are consistent with those of a Fermi liquid with strong mass enhancement. The availability of high quality single crystals opens the door to many microscopic probes (such as x-ray and neutron scattering studies) which should help achieve an understanding of this strongly correlated material. 
We thank B. Khaykovich, R. Ott, and R. Lang for assistance with the experimental measurements. This research was supported by the National Science 
Foundation under its MRSEC Program Award No. 02-13282 and also by Grant No. DMR 0239377. J.H.C. was partially supported by Korea Research Foundation Grant.(KRF-2002-005-C20001). † Permanent address: RCDAMP and Department of Physics, Pusan National University, Pusan 609-735, Korea 
