Enhancing the Superconducting Transition Temperature in the Absence of Spin Correlations in Heavy Fermion Compound CeIrIn 5
We report on a pressure(P )-induced evolution of superconductivity and spin correlations in CeIrIn5 via the 115 In nuclear-spin-lattice-relaxation rate measurements. We find that applying pressure suppresses dramatically the antiferromagnetic fluctuations that are strong at ambient pres- sure. At P = 2.1 GPa, Tc increases to Tc = 0.8 K that is twice Tc(P = 0 GPa), in the background of Fermi liquid state. This is in sharp contrast with the previous case in which negative, chemical pressure (replacing Ir with Rh) enhances magnetic interaction and increases Tc. Our results suggest that multiple mechanisms work to produce superconductivity in the same compound CeIrIn5.
The cerium (Ce)-based heavy-fermion compounds CeMIn 5 (M = Co, Rh, and Ir) discovered a few years ago provides a unique opportunity to investigate the in- terplay between antiferromagnetism and superconduc- tivity . Among CeMIn 5 , CeIrIn 5 and CeCoIn 5
show superconductivity at P = 0 below T c = 0.4 K and 2.3 K, respectively . Antiferromagnet CeRhIn 5 be- comes superconducting at relatively lower critical pres- sure P c ∼ 1.GPa and yet exhibits a higher T c ∼ 2 K . Measurements of nuclear-quadrupole-resonance (NQR) , thermal transport and heat capac- ity on CeMIn 5 found that the superconductivity is unconventional, with line-nodes in the superconducting gap function. NQR and inelastic neutron diffraction measurements also found strong antifer- romagnetic spin fluctuations in the normal state. In addi- tion, in CeIrIn 5 , the antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations are found to be anisotropic, namely, a magnetic corre- lation length ξ plane within the tetragonal plane grows up more dominantly than ξ c along the c-axis associated with their two-dimensional crystal structure. The nuclear- spin-lattice-relaxation rate(1/T 1 ) was found to follow the relation of 1/T 1 T ∝ 1/(T + θ) 3/4 with a small value of θ = 8 K . The same analysis was applied to CeCoIn 5 with resulting θ = 0.6 K . Note that θ is a measure to what extent the system is close to an antiferromag- netic quantum critical point (QCP). It was suggested that the difference in the value of θ between CeIrIn 5 and CeCoIn 5 may lead to the large difference in the value of T c.
Moreover, substituting Ir to Rh in CeIrIn 5 increases T c up to 1 K in CeRhIrIn 5 . It was found that this substitution acts as negative chemical pressure that in- creases the antiferromagnetic correlations . In fact, in CeRh 0.5 Ir 0.5 In 5 , the enhanced superconductivity co- exists microscopically with antiferromagnetic order that sets in at T N = 3 K . These results have naturally led to an expectation that superconductivity in CeMIn 5 is induced by antiferromagnetic correlations. However, it was found that applying hydrostatic pressure also in- creases T c in CeIrIn 5 . A T max c ∼ 1 K was found at around P ∼ 3 GPa . The possible role of mag- netic correlations in the increase of T c under pressure in CeIrIn 5 is still an open question.
In this Letter, we report on the pressure-induced evo- lution of superconducting characteristics and antiferro- magnetic spin fluctuations in CeIrIn 5 through T 1 mea- surements. We found that the superconductivity with enhanced T c under pressure in CeIrIn 5 is realized in the absence of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations. Our re- sults suggest that there are two mechanisms for super- conductivity in the same compound CeIrIn 5 . We argue that the existence of multiple superconducting phase may be common in heavy fermion compounds.
Single crystals of CeIrIn 5 were grown by the self-flux method and moderately crushed into grains in order to allow rf pulses to penetrate easily into samples. To avoid crystal distortions, however, the grain's diameters were kept larger than 100 µm. CeIrIn 5 consists of alternating layers of CeIn 3 and IrIn 2 and hence has two inequiva- lent In sites per unit cell. The 115 In-NQR measure- ments were made at the In(1) site which is located on the top and bottom faces of the tetragonal unit cell. Since the position of In(1) site is crystallographically closer to Ce nucleus than that of In(2) site, it is suited to investigate the relationship between superconductiv- ity and magnetic correlations. In-NQR measurement was made by a conventional saturation-recovery method. The 115 In-NQR T 1 was measured at the transition of 2ν Q (±3/2 ↔ ±5/2) above T = 1.4 K, but at 1ν Q (±1/2 ↔ ±3/2) below T = 1.4 K. The hydrostatic pres- sure was applied by utilizing BeCu piston-cylinder cell, filled with Daphne oil (7373) as a pressure-transmitting medium. The value of pressure at low temperature was determined from the pressure dependence of the T c value of Sn metal measured by a conventional four terminal method. For our pressure cells, the spatial distribution in values of pressure ∆P/P is estimated to be ∼ 3% from a broadening in the linewidth of NQR spectrum.
The T dependence of 115 (1/T1) in CeIrIn5 at P = 0, 1.0, 1.58 and 2.1 GPa. The data for CeIrIn5 at P = 0 GPa and LaIrIn5 are taken from Ref.[4]. Arrows indicate a superconducting transition temperature Tc at each pressure. The respective dotted lines indicate the behaviors of 1/T1T = const. and 1/T1 ∝ T 3 at the normal and superconducting state.
shows the T dependence of 115 In-NQR 1/T 1 for CeIrIn 5 measured at P = 0, 1.0, 1.58 and 2.1 GPa. The data at P = 0 GPa and for LaIrIn 5 are taken from Ref. Above T c , the Ce 4f magnetic contribution to the relaxation rate for CeIrIn 5 is clear when comparing its value to 1/T 1 measured in the non-magnetic LaIrIn 5 . As reported in the previous work, the sudden decrease in 1/T 1 at P = 0 GPa at T = 0.4 K indicated the onset of bulk superconductivity. Unconventional superconductiv- ity was evidenced from the characteristic T dependence of 1/T 1 that exhibits no coherence peak just below T c and follows the T 3 behavior well below T c . As pres- sure increases, T c increases linearly and reaches T c = 0.8 K which is twice the T c at P = 0 GPa. Note that the unconventional nature of superconductivity under pres- sure is evident from the T dependence of 1/T 1 below T c as shown in .
In order to examine the pressure-induced evolu- tion of superconducting characteristics in CeIrIn 5 , . The line-node superconducting energy-gap model with ∆ = ∆ 0 cos θ was applied to analyze the 1/T 1 data below T c with ∆ 0 /k B T c as a parameter. with N 0 being the den- sity of state in the normal state and f (E) is the Fermi distribution function. From fittings shown by solid line in , the pressure independent values of ∆ 0 /k B T c = 2.5 are obtained. Here, we assumed the residual den- sity of state in the superconducting gap to be zero since clear T 3 behavior is observed down to 0.15 T c in our sample. This result shows that the coupling strength for the formation of Cooper pairs is almost the same in CeIrIn 5 regardless of the increase in T c . It is consis- tent with the results of specific heat measurements under pressure which showed that the relatively small specific heat jump at T c , ∆C/γ(T c ) ∼ 0.8, is almost indepen- dent of pressure. Here, γ is the T -linear coefficient in electronic specific heat. What type of evolution in
Plot of [T1(T ) −1 /T1(Tc) −1 ] versus T /Tc(P ). Solid line indicates a calculation based on a unconventional super- conducting model with a line-node gap assuming ∆0 = 2.5 kBTc (see text).
the electronic and magnetic properties under pressure in- creases T c in CeIrIn 5 ? In order to gain an insight into this issue, we focus on the pressure-induced evolution of magnetic fluctuations in the normal state in CeIrIn 5 . and its inset show the 1/T 1 T versus T plots in CeIrIn 5 at P = 0, 1.0, 1.58 and 2.1 GPa and LaIrIn 5 at P = 0 GPa in linear and logarithmic scales, respec- tively. At P = 0 GPa, the T dependence of 1/T 1 T above T c is well explained by the anisotropic antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations model . As seen in , the application of pressure markedly suppresses the antifer- romagnetic spin fluctuations, bringing the system away from the antiferromagnetic QCP. As a result, a relation of 1/T 1 T = const. becomes valid over T = 1 − 100 K at P = 2.1 GPa without the development of antiferromag- netic spin fluctuations upon cooling. On the other hand, it should be noted that, as seen in , the values of 1/T 1 T and γ ∼ 0.25 J/K 2 mol for CeIrIn 5 at P = 2.1 GPa are one order of magnitude larger than that for LaIrIn 5 . These results indicate that strong electron cor- relation still plays a central role to enhance the values of 1/T 1 T and γ, even though antiferromagnetic spin fluc- tuations disappear in CeIrIn 5 under pressure. This is in contrast to the case for CeCoIn 5 and CeRhIn 5 in which antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations enhance 1/T 1 T upon cooling, even though each system is away from the anti- ferromagnetic QCP with applying pressure .
The T dependence of 1/T1T at P = 0, 1.0, 1.58 and 2.1 GPa. The data for CeIrIn5 at P = 0 GPa and LaIrIn5 are taken from Ref.[4]. In the main figure and the inset, the data are plotted in linear and logarithmic scales, respectively. Arrows and dotted lines indicate Tc(P ) and a T1T = const. relation for LaIrIn5, respectively.
The pressure dependencies of ∆ 0 /k B T c and T c for CeIrIn 5 are summarized in (a) together with those for CeCoIn 5 in the inset. In CeCoIn 5 , the application of pressure also significantly suppresses 1/T 1 that is dom- inated by antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations specific to the antiferromagnetic QCP. It shows very good agree- ment with specific heat measurements under pressure. Although a jump in specific heat at T c (∆C/γ(T c ) ∼ 5) has a surprisingly large value at ambient pressure, in- dicative of a strong coupling superconductivity, this value shows a marked decrease against applying pressure . Correspondingly, 1/T 1 T is significantly suppressed as pressure increases . Both results suggest that the application of pressure to CeCoIn 5 increases the heavy- fermion bandwidth due to the increase of hybridization between f electrons and conduction electrons and even- tually brings the system away from the antiferromagnetic QCP. As a result, the superconducting gap or ∆ 0 /k B T c in CeCoIn 5 decreases as shown in in- set. Noting that, in CeCoIn 5 , the 1/T 1 T is intimately enhanced upon cooling to T c , it is expected that antifer- romagnetic spin fluctuations play a role in mediating the Cooper pairs even when the system is away from the an- tiferromagnetic QCP under pressure. Nevertheless, the enhancement of T c with applying pressure was sug- gested to be relevant to the increase in heavy-fermion bandwidth that is expected to make the lifetime of quasi- particles long enough. In this context, the Cooper pairs in CeCoIn 5 may originate from attractive interaction in- duced by antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations. It was hence argued that, in the presence of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations, the value of T c may be controlled by the combined effect of coupling strength for the Cooper-pair formation due to the closeness to the antiferromagnetic QCP and the heavy-fermion bandwidth in CeCoIn 5.
The pressure dependence of ∆0/kBTc and Tc in CeIrIn5. The inset indicates those for CeCoIn5 taken from the ref. Solid lines are eye guides. (b) The pressure depen- dence of γ and (1/T1T ) 1/2 in CeIrIn5 just above Tc(P )(see text). Solid line is eye-guide.
This approach fails to account for the pressure depen- dence of T c in CeIrIn 5 , however. Indeed, we have shown that the maximum of T c is realized without the develop- ment of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations in the normal state as supported by the observation of T 1 T = const. law over two decades in the T range above T c . The heavy- fermion bandwidth increases with pressure as corrobo- rated by the fact that γ is scaled to (1/T 1 T ) 1/2 as seen in . Here, the value of (1/T 1 T ) 1/2 is proportional to the density of state at the Fermi level. Therefore, the increase of T c may be relevant to the increase of heavy- fermion bandwidth.
In most Ce-based heavy-fermion compounds where the superconductivity appears either at P = 0 GPa or in the neighborhood of antiferromagnetism, the antiferromag- netic spin fluctuations are expected to be responsible for the onset of unconventional spin-singlet superconductiv- ity. In the antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations theory , T c takes a maximum value at the border of an- tiferromagnetism as observed in previous examples. In CeCu 2 X 2 (X=Si and Ge), however, the maximum value of T c appears far away from the antiferromagnetic QCP, which indicates that the low-lying antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations are not responsible for the formation of su- perconductivity . In fact, it has been found that two superconducting phases exist in CeCu 2 (Si 1−x Ge x ) 2 . It has been suggested that one of superconductivity (SC-I) is induced by strong antiferromagnetic spin fluctua- tions on the verge of antiferromagnetism and the other (SC-II) by valence instability of localized Ce-4f electrons since the system is far away from the antiferromagnetic QCP . Markedly, the higher T c takes place in the SC-II.
Approaches based on spin-fluctuations theories also fail to account for the existence of spin-triplet superconduc- tivity in Sr 2 RuO 4 where two-dimensional Fermi-liquid state is realized with the strong electron correlation as confirmed by the T 1 T = const. law. It has been proposed that the on-site electron correlation induces various types of unconventional superconductivity through the momen- tum dependence of quasi-particle interaction, which orig- inates from the many-body effect . Interestingly, this scenario can predict d-wave and p-wave superconductiv- ity near half-filling and away from half-filling respectively without involving spin-fluctuations as the key-mechanism for pairing.
An important fact revealed by the present experiment is that superconductivity in CeIrIn 5 is robust over a wide pressure range where the antiferromagnetic spin fluctua- tions are absent. This may be due to either charge va- lence instability or, on-site coulomb interactions. Further experiments are required at this stage to clarify this issue.
In summary, we have presented the unique characteris- tics of superconductivity and its relation to antiferromag- netic spin fluctuations in the heavy-fermion supercon- ductor CeIrIn 5 through 115 In-NQR measurements under pressure. The application of external pressure rapidly suppresses antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations that are strong at ambient pressure. At P = 2.1 GPa where a T 1 T = const. law is valid over T = 1 − 100 K, T c increases up to T c = 0.8 K which is twice the T c at P = 0 GPa. Our re- sults indicate that another superconducting phase exists in the absence of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations, in addition to the superconducting phase with T max c = 1 K that coexists with antiferromagnetism. The present sys- tem bears some similarity with another proto-type heavy fermion compound CeCu 2 Si 2, and suggests that the exis- tence of multiple superconducting phase may be common in heavy fermion compounds.