Three-Dimensional Superconductivity in the Infinite-Layer Compound Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 in Entire Region below T c 
The infinite-layer compound ACuO2 (A = alkaline-earth ions) is regarded as the most suitable material for exploring the fundamental nature of the CuO2 plane because it does not contain a charge-reservoir block, such as a rock-salt or a fluorite like block. We report that superconductivity in the infinite-layer compound Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 is of a three-dimensional nature, in contrast to the quasi two-dimensional superconducting behavior of all other cuprates. The key observation is that the c-axis coherence length is longer than the c-axis lattice constant even at zero temperature. This means that the superconducting order parameter of one CuO2 plane overlaps with those of neighboring CuO2 planes all the temperatures below the Tc. Among all cuprates, only the infinite- layer superconductor shows such a feature.
The key ingredient of high-temperature superconduc- tors (HTSC) is the CuO 2 plane in which superconduc- tivity occurs. Besides the CuO 2 plane, the unit cell of HTSC generally contains a charge-reservoir block (CRB) which supplies holes or electrons into the conducting layer. However, the function of the CRB, beyond sup- plying carriers in the materials, is not yet completely clear. In one respect, the CRB might simply be a spacer between the CuO 2 planes. In this case, the block reduces the layer-by-layer coupling. The strong anisotropic na- ture of HTSC is believed to be a reflection of this weak interlayer coupling. In this context, the infinite-layer compounds ACuO 2 (A = alkaline-earth ions) are remark- able, because they do not have a CRB, so the simplicity of their crystal structure may allow in-depth insight into the basic mechanism of cuprate superconductivity. Due to the absence of the CRB, infinite-layer compounds have two notable features. First, the distance from one unit cell to the next is the shortest among all the cuprates. Secondly, as a matter of course, charge carriers can be supplied only from the cations at the A sites. For example, the carrier density of the stoichometric infinite- layer SrCuO 2 is zero. The partial substitution of La +3 (or Nd +3 ) for Sr +2 results in superconductivity in these compounds. In this case, the carriers are not holes, but electrons.
Recently, we successfully synthesized pure-phase Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 (Sr(La)-112) with T c ≃ 43 K by using a cubic multi-anvil press. The details of the sample prepa- ration will be given elsewhere. In this work, we mea- sured the reversible magnetization as a function of the temperature and the angle between the c axis and the applied magnetic field. From analysis of the data, we found that the usual HTSC two-dimensional (2D) tem- perature region of ξ c (T ) < c below T c did not exist in this compound. This peculiar feature has not been observed in any other high-T c material. Until now, YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ (Y-123) has been known to have the most strong inter- layer coupling, but the three-dimensional (3D) tempera- ture region is limited to near T c only. Previously, it was claimed that the high-T c superconductivity occurred only on the 2D network of CuO 2 planes, since a 3D net- work did not permit spin or charge fluctuation while a 1D structure did not establish long range order of super- conductivity. Hence, our observation of 3D superconduc- tivity in entire region below T c in Sr(La)-112 provides a new aspect of high-temperature superconductivity.
For the magnetization measurements, we aligned the grains of the sample in commercial epoxy under an ex- ternal magnetic field of 11 T. displays the x-ray powder diffraction (XRD) pattern of Sr(La)-112 be- fore and after the grain alignment. After the alignment, only the (002) reflection was seen in the XRD pattern. The inset of shows the x-ray rocking curve of the (002) reflection. The full width at half maximum of the reflection is less than 1 degree, which means a good c- axis alignment. The aligned sample was approximately 9.5 mm in length and 3 mm in diameter. The reversible magnetization was measured as a function of the temper- ature and the angle between the c axis and the applied magnetic field by using a superconducting quantum in- terference device (SQUID) magnetometer (MPMS-XL, Quantum design).
shows the reversible magnetization, 4πM (T ), at fields of 1 T ≤ H ≤ 5 T parallel to the c axis of the sample. In this figure, the symbols and the lines denote the zero-field-cooled and the field-cooled magnetizations, respectively. In comparison with other cuprates, our data show two interesting features. First, the curves shift to lower temperature as the field increases and are almost parallel to each other. This typical mean-field behavior is consistent with the prediction of the Abrikosov model in which the magnetization scales linearly with the magnetic field. Such a feature has never been observed before for any high-T c cuprate because the mean-field behavior is usually screened by strong thermal fluctua- tions. Secondly, the rate of decrease of T c (H) with respect to the field is significantly larger than that of other cuprates, here the superconducting transition tem- perature, T c (H), is estimated as the temperature at the point of intersection of a linear extrapolation of 4πM (T ) in the superconducting state with the normal-state base line of 4πM = 0. For instance, at H = 5 T, T c (H) is found to be about 33 K, which corresponds to 0.77T c (0). Hence, the upper-critical field H c2 (0) is expected to be about 20 T, assuming a linear T c (H). To determine H c2 (0) precisely, we apply the Hao-Clem model for re- versible magnetization to our data. The details of the analysis will be given elsewhere (M.-S. Kim et al., manuscript in preparation). Two important parameters characterizing the compound are the Ginzburg-Landau parameter, κ, and the slope of the upper-critical field near T c , dH c2 /dT | Tc . The Hao-Clem model analysis gives κ = 25.3 ± 1.1 and dH c2 /dT | Tc = −0.47 ± 0.02 T/K. Using these, we estimate H c2 (0) to be 13.9 ± 0.5 T through the relationship H c2 (0) ≃ 0.7(dH c2 /dT ) Tc T c, which is about ten times smaller than the value for other cuprate superconductors. The in-plane coher- ence length ξ ab (0) = [φ 0 /2πH c2 (0)] 1/2 is calculated to be 48.6 ± 1.0Å, where φ 0 is the flux quantum. In our study, we apply the Hao-Clem model to de- scribe our magnetization data. Since the model is derived from the phenomenological Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory, our result is justified in the GL framework. However, we judge our result not to be model depen- dent particularly from the following consideration: The open symbols in the inset of represent the in-plane magnetic penetration depth, λ ab (T ), obtained from the dc-magnetic susceptibility, 4πχ(T ), for the low-field re- gion of H < H c1 . To deduce λ ab (T ) from the 4πχ(T ) curve, we use the Shoenberg formula, which is not model dependent, but is merely based on the London equations. For comparison, we also plot λ ab (T ) (filled symbols) from the Hao-Clem analysis in the same figure.
We can see that the two curves, indeed, coincide. Thus, we can conclude that the application of the Hao-Clem model in this study does not reduce the generality of our results.
In the inset of , the solid line represents the tem- perature dependence of the penetration depth assuming the BCS clean limit. The estimated zero-temperature penetration depth, λ ab (0), is 147 ± 6 nm, which is close to λ ab (0) ≃ 130 nm of Y-123. In the framework of the London model, the penetration depth is proportional to (m * ab /n s ) 1/2 , where m * and n s are the electronic effective mass in the ab plane and the charge-carrier density, re- spectively. According to the empirical Uemura relation, i.e., T c ∼ n s /m * ab , the T c 's of the two compounds should be nearly the same. However, the T c of Sr(La)-112 is about half that of Y-123. This discordance might differentiate Sr(La)-112 from the hole-doped cuprates.
For the cuprate superconductors studied until now, the zero-temperature coherence length along the c axis, ξ c (0), was found to be much smaller than the unit c- axis length. As the temperature increased toward T c , a dimensional crossover from 2D to 3D occurred at a certain temperature T * where ξ c (T * ) = c/ √ 2. For moderately anisotropic materials like Y-123, a broader 3D-temperature region around T c was observed due to strong interlayer coupling. However, the 3D region for strongly anisotropic compounds, such as Bi-and Tl- based superconductors, was found to be extremely nar- row.
Since the unit structure of an infinite-layer supercon- ductor does not contain a CRB, one can expect the cou- pling between CuO 2 planes to be strong. To date, however, no rigorous studies to examine the dimension- ality of the compound have been done. With our high- quality samples, we designed experiments to obtain the anisotropy ratio γ = ξ ab /ξ c . A combination of γ and the ξ ab (0) obtained above gives the ratio ξ c /c which deter- mines the dimensionality of the system.
Under an external magnetic field, the magnetization of all anisotropic materials has two components, M L and M T . M L is the component parallel to the field, and the other component, M T , is perpendicular to the field. Usu- ally, M T can be measured using a torque magnetometer, and the degree of anisotropy is reflected in the angu- lar dependence of the torque, τ (θ) = HM T (θ). Previ- ously, Farrell et al. measured the magnetic torque curves for highly anisotropic Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8 (Bi-2212) and moderately anisotropic Y-123. By applying the Lon- don model to the data, they obtained the anisotropy ra- tios γ ≃ 55 and γ ≃ 5 for Bi-2212 and Y-123, respectively. On the other hand, we obtained the anisotropy ratio of Sr(La)-112 by measuring M L (θ) using a SQUID magne- tometer with a sample rotator. The obtained data were analyzed by using the calculation of Hao et al. which considered the effective mass anisotropy of the ma- terial. For comparison, we also applied the London model to the data.
shows the angular dependence of the re- versible magnetization, 4πM (θ), measured at H = 1 T in the temperature range of 36.5 K ≤ T ≤ 40 K. In this figure, the solid lines represent the theoretical prediction of the Hao-Clem model. We see a good fit, except for temperatures above T = 39 K. We infer that the departure of the data from the theoretical lines at higher temperatures is due to the thermal fluctuation effect, which becomes more important as the tempera- ture increases. The inset of is a plot of the anisotropy ratio obtained from each curve in . The filled and the open symbols are deduced by application of the Hao-Clem and the London models, respectively. In the filled-symbol set, the curve shows a plateau behav- ior at low temperatures and then increases monotonically with temperature. The increase is postulated to originate from the thermal fluctuation effect, as mentioned above. In the open-symbol set, however, no such plateau feature exists. In fact, the London model is known to be suitable for the low-field region of H ≪ H c2 . Since our magneti- zation data were taken near the transition temperature, the external field of 1 T is regarded as considerably large. Thus, our data set is out of the London region. This is consistent with the 4πM (T ) data in , which lie in the Abrikosov region.
It is quite natural to take the value of the plateau in the filled-symbol set as the real anisotropy ratio. With this value, γ = 9.3 ± 0.2, we obtain an out-of-plane coherence length of ξ c (0) = 5.2 ± 0.3Å by using the relationship ξ c = ξ ab /γ and the value of ξ ab (0) from the above anal- ysis. The criterion for 3D superconductivity below T c is ξ c (T ) > c/ √ 2. The value of ξ ab (0) = 5.4Å is con- siderably larger than the c/ √ 2 ≃ 2.4Å. This means that the superconducting order parameter of one CuO 2 plane overlaps with those of neighboring CuO 2 planes even at zero temperature.
Additional evidence for 3D superconductivity can be found from the scaling analysis of the fluctuation-induced magnetization for the high-field re- gion. According to Ullah and Dorsey, the magnetiza- tion in the critical region scales with the scaling variable of A[T − T c (H)]/(T H) n , where A is a field and transi- tion temperature-independent coefficient, and n is 2/3 for a 3D system and 1/2 for a 2D system. As expected, the magnetization scales excellently with the 3D form. shows 4πM/(T H) n versus the scaling param- eter (T − T c (H)/(T H) n with n = 2/3. All the data for the different fields collapse onto a single curve. The slope −dH c2 /dT ≃ 0.5 T/K near T c is obtained from this scaling analysis. This value is fairly consistent with that deduced from the c-axis magnetization analysis.
Our results provide clear evidences for three- dimensional superconductivity, even at zero temperature, in the infinite-layer compound Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2. Here, we deduced the anisotropy ratio γ to be about 9 by mea- suring the angular dependence of the reversible magne- tization. This value is somewhat larger than the value of γ ≃ 5 for Y-123. However, the absence of a CRB in the infinite-layer compound allows the order parameter of one layer to overlap with those of neighboring layers. In addition, we found that the empirical Uemura relation was not applicable to the case of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2.
XRD patterns of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 before and after the grain alignment. The inset shows x-ray rocking curve of the (002) reflection of aligned sample.
Temperature dependence of the magnetization, 4πM (T ), measured at applied magnetic fields of 1 T ≤ H ≤ 5 T (filled circles, 1 T; open circles, 1.5 T; filled down tri- angles, 2 T; open down triangles, 2.5 T; filled squares, 3 T; open squares, 3.5 T; filled diamonds, 4 T; open diamonds, 4.5 T; filled up triangles, 5 T). The inset shows the penetra- tion depth, λ ab (T ), deduced from the Hao-Clem model (filled symbols) and the Shoenberg formula (open symbols). In this figure, the solid line represents the BCS temperature depen- dence of the penetration depth.
Angular dependence of the magnetization, 4πM (θ), measured at temperatures of 36.5 K ≤ T ≤ 40 K and a field of H = 1 T (filled circles, 36.5 K; open circles, 37 K; filled down triangles, 37.5 K; open down triangles, 38 K; filled squares, 38.5 K; open squares, 39 K; filled diamonds, 39.5 K; open diamonds, 40 K). The θ denotes the angle be- tween the applied magnetic field and the crystallographic c axis of the sample. The solid lines represent the prediction of the Hao-Clem model. The inset shows the anisotropy ratio γ(T ) obtained from 4πM (θ). The filled and the open symbols are deduced from analyses based on the Hao-Clem and the London models, respectively. The solid lines are just guides for the eyes.
Scaling of the data of Fig. 1 with the scaling vari- able (T − Tc(H)/(T H) 2/3 . In this analysis, a linear tem- perature dependence of Hc2 near Tc was used assumed, i.e., −dHc2/dT = 0.47 T/K.