Gigantic anisotropic uniaxial pressure effect on superconductivity within the CuO 2 plane of La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 -strain control of stripe criticality 
The effect of uniaxial pressure on superconductivity was examined for a high-Tc cuprate La1.64Eu0.2Sr0.16CuO4, which is located at the boundary between the superconducting and stripe phases. We found remarkably large anisotropy of the uniaxial pressure effect not only between the in-plane and out-of-plane pressures but also within the CuO2-plane. When the pressure is applied along the tetragonal [110] direction, we found the largest pressure effect ever observed in cuprates, dTc/dP [110] ∼ 2.5 K/kbar, while the change of Tc was not appreciable when applied along [100]. This substantial in-plane anisotropy is attributed to an intimate link between the symmetry of the one-dimensional stripes and that of the strain produced within the CuO2 plane. 
PACS numbers: 71.45.Lr, 74.62.Fj, 74.72.Dn 
Recently, self-organized states of strongly correlated electrons, created by the intimate interplay between charge, spin, and orbital degrees of freedom, have been attracting considerable interest, because of the rich vari- ety of physics behind it. One of the hallmarks of such self-organized states is the "stripe" phase in high-T c cuprates . Stripes in high-T c cuprates form a peri- odic pattern of charge and spin rivers running along the tetragonal [100] or [010] directions (parallel to the Cu-O bonds). The signature of stripes is most significant in La 2 CuO 4 -based cuprates. In the prototypical cuprates a pronounced suppression of superconductivity is observed due to the formation of static stripes when the doping level is close to a magic number x = 1/8 and/or when the crystal has a low temperature tetragonal (LTT) struc- ture . The former is attributed to commensurability of the stripe pattern with the lattice. The latter is due to a tilting of the CuO 6 octahedron towards in the LTT phase, which stabilizes the formation of charge and spin channels running along the [100] direction.
To date, statically ordered stripes have been observed only in La 2 CuO 4 -based cuprates. It has been argued, however, that the stripe instability is not specific to the La 2 CuO 4 family but generic to the two-dimensional CuO 2 planes. The observation of incommensurate spin correlations in YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ by inelastic neutron scat- tering suggests that dynamical stripe fluctuations are present universally in layered cuprates, though alterna- tive views have been raised . A close link between the stripe formation and high-T c superconductivity has been discussed. The static stripes seem to suppress and to compete with high-T c superconductivity. We clearly ob- serve an anomalous absence of superconductivity around x = 1/8 in La 2−x Ba x CuO 4 , where statically ordered stripes are formed. Dynamically fluctuating stripes, how-ever, have been argued to promote superconductivity and are now taken as one of potential candidates for the mech- anism of high-T c superconductivity .
Such a delicate balance between stripes and high-T c superconductivity has been promoting attempt to finely tune the phase competition using external parameters such as pressure and magnetic field . Enhance- ment of superconductivity by hydrostatic pressure around the 1/8 anomaly has been known for many years . In this work, we propose uniaxial pressure as a novel and promising control parameter to explore the critical region of the stripe-superconductivity phase boundary, which provides by far richer information than the conventional hydrostatic pressure and therefore is distinct. The stripes in high-T c cuprates are one-dimensional self-organized objects formed within the two-dimensional CuO 2 plane and, therefore, a strong coupling with an anisotropic dis- tortion of the tetragonal CuO 2 plane is anticipated. The fact that the stripes are stabilized in the presence of LTT distortion along [100] can be understood in terms of such a coupling. Hydrostatic pressure is essentially a volume effect and cannot generate any anisotropic dis- tortion. Uniaxial pressure, on the other hand, produces an anisotropic lattice distortion and can thereby change the symmetry of lattice. This will modify the stability of stripes drastically and hence superconductivity. In the past, so-called pressure control of stripes and super- conductivity has been conducted by utilizing hydrostatic pressure, except for a very limited number of uniaxial studies .
We have attempted to examine such a coupling between stripes and the anisotropic distortion using La 1.8−x Eu 0.2 Sr x CuO 4 . It is well known that the intro- duction of rare earth ions to the La site tends to sta- bilize the LTT structure . In La 1.8−x Eu 0.2 Sr x CuO 4 , by introducing 10% of Eu for La, the LTT phase is sta- bilized over a wide range of hole concentration from x = 0 to 0.3 . This provides a unique opportunity to observe the stripe criticality in the absence of the first order LTO-LTT phase transition. More interestingly, the underdoped side of the superconducting dome in the phase diagram gives a way to a "stripe" magnet, as if the superconducting phase were replaced with the "stripe" phase , as schematically shown in the inset of Fig- ure. As a result, an intriguing phase competition between the stripe phase and the superconducting phase appears around a critical composition of x = 0.16 which appears as a bicritical point. It should be emphasized that the boundary is located away from the 1/8 anomaly, which implies that commensurability is less important. La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 single crystals in critical vicin- ity to the phase boundary were grown by a traveling sol- vent floating zone (TSFZ) technique . Three dif- ferent samples were cut from the same crystalline rod. At ambient pressure, all the crystals showed superconduct- ing transition at around 10 K. The out-of-plane resistivity ρ z , shown in (a), indicates two clear anomalies at 340 K and 125 K. These correspond to transitions from HTT to LTO and from LTO to LTT, respectively. As shown in , the signature of static stripe forma-
(a) Temperature dependence of the out-of-plane re- sistivity ρz for La1.64Eu0.2Sr0.16CuO4 single crystal. Two anomalies associated with the structural phase transitions from high temperature tetragonal (HTT) to low tempera- ture orthorhombic (LTO) and from LTO to low temperature tetragonal (LTT) can be clearly seen in the magnified curves. (b) Temperature dependence of the Hall resistivity ρxy, where the anomalous decrease of ρxy at around 50 K marks the on- set of the static stripe formation. Inset shows a schematic phase diagram of La1.8−xEu0.2SrxCuO4. tion was observed below 50 K, which manifests itself as a rapid decrease of Hall resistivity ρ xy with decreasing temperature . Whether this stripe signature repre- sents the coexistence of stripes and superconductivity or a two-phase admixture is not clear at this stage, but does not affect the main point of this paper.
Magnetization measurements were conducted on the La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 single crystals under uniaxial pressures up to 5 kbar applied along three independent directions, [001], [100] and . A uniaxial pressure cell, which can be used in a commercial SQUID magnetome- ter (MPMS, Quantum Design), was developed. In order to reduce the background signal from the pressure cell, the main body is made of a high-strength plastic mate- rial. The background signal was found to be negligibly small, as compared with the Meissner signal of a few mg of the sample. The sample was pressurized uniaxi- ally in the cell until it breaks up. On applying pressure, we sometimes observed a reduction of the magnitude of the superconducting signal. We believe that this is due to micro-cracks, which likely reduce the uniaxial nature and cause a broadening of the transition. In the follow- ing, therefore, we deal only with data, which did not show any appreciable reduction of the shielding signal.
In this work on La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 , we found for the first time anisotropy of the pressure effect on T c within the CuO 2 plane. A gigantic uniaxial pressure ef- fect was observed only for pressures applied along the tetragonal [110] direction, i.e. at 45 degrees to the stripe orientation. This demonstrates that stripes, the one- dimensional charge objects, indeed strongly couple to an anisotropic distortion of the lattice.
The pressure dependence of the temperature depen- dent magnetization is summarized in Figure . The data clearly demonstrate that the anisotropy of the uniaxial pressure effect exists not only between the in-plane and the out-of-plane directions but also within the tetragonal CuO 2 planes. As seen in , the superconduct- ing transition shifts to a lower temperature with increas- ing pressure applied along [001]. In remarkable contrast, T c increases when the pressure is applied parallel to the CuO 2 planes (both the [100] and the [110] directions), as shown in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c). This contrast between the in-plane pressure and the out-of-plane pressure has been known for many years. A substantial change of T c , associated with anisotropic pressure induced by epitaxial strain, was observed in underdoped La 2−x Sr(Ba) x CuO 4 thin films . In the case of films on LaSrAlO 4 sub- strate, a substantial increase of T c up to 50 K was ob- served. The LaSrAlO 4 substrate has a slightly smaller in- plane lattice constant than those of bulk La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 , which results in the in-plane compression and the out-of- plane expansion of the La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 film. The rapid in- crease of T c has been ascribed to such an epitaxial strain effect. Consistent with this, a substantial decrease of T c was observed for SrTiO 3 substrate with a large lattice
Temperature dependence of magnetization for La1.64Eu0.2Sr0.16CuO4 single crystals under uniaxial pres- sures applied along (a) [001], (b) [100], and (c) [110]. The measurements were made under a magnetic field of H= 10 Oe by warming up the sample after zero field cooling. constant which gives rise to the in-plane expansion and the out-of-plane compression. This strong dependence of T c on anisotropic pressure was also directly demon- strated by a recent uniaxial pressure measurement . Our observation of distinct differences between the in- plane and the out-of-plane pressure effects agrees well with these observations. The most remarkable result here is the substantial dif- ference between the [100] direction and the [110] direc- tion, both within the CuO 2 plane. This is the first obser- vation of an in-plane anisotropic pressure effect in high-T c cuprates. Only when the pressure is applied along [110] do we see a strikingly large increase of T c with in- creasing pressure. Indeed, the application of only several kbar causes T c to almost double. In contrast, when the pressure is applied along [100], only a small change in T c is observed. This implies that the in-plane pressure effect cannot be simply described by a superposition of pressure effects along two orthogonal directions but strongly de- pends on the symmetry of strains induced. This novel anisotropic pressure effect is visually summarized in Fig- ure. Note that the increase of T c with P/[110] upon pressure, dT c /dP [110] ∼ 2.5 K/kbar is even larger than observed on La 2−x Ba x CuO 4 around x ∼ 1/8 with hy- drostatic pressure , previously the largest pressure effect ever observed in high-T c cuprates.
We ascribe this striking in-plane anisotropy to the in- timate coupling between the one-dimensional stripes and an anisotropic lattice distortion within the CuO 2 planes. The stripes are running along either [100] or [010], switch- ing alternately from plane to plane along the c-axis . Note that the [110] direction is rotated 45 degrees to the stripe directions. Since the symmetry of strain in- duced by the [110] pressure does not match with those of the one-dimensional stripes, it appears natural that the [110] pressure suppresses stripe formation and there- fore enhances superconductivity. The [100] pressure, on the other hand, is parallel or perpendicular to the stripes, which gives rise to an orthorhombic strain matching with the local symmetry of stripes within each CuO 2 plane. The [100] strain therefore might not be so detrimental to stripe formation. In addition, the 90 degree rotation of the stripe direction from plane to plane may act to cancel out the [100] strain effects.
Such an intimate link between the symmetry of strain and the stripes may become even clearer by considering the presence of the LTT distortion, an alternate tilting of the CuO 6 octahedron along the stripe direction, that is known to stabilize stripe formation. In rare earth (RE = Nd, Eu, Sm) substituted La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 , the system switches from a stripe magnet to a superconductor upon hole doping at a composition away from the magic num- ber 1/8. It has been proposed that this critical phase boundary is determined by the strength of the LTT dis- tortion, which can in turn be quantified by the tilting an-
Pressure dependence of Tc for La1.64Eu0.2Sr0.16CuO4 with uniaxial pressures applied along [100], [110] and [001]. Tc was defined as a temperature where the diamagnetic signal reaches 50% of perfect diamagnetism in Fig. 2.
gle of the CuO 6 octahedra. The presence of a universal critical angle for switching was also demonstrated. The tilting angle decreases upon Sr doping and, eventually at the critical angle, drives the stripe magnet into SC. The strain, at 45 degrees to the stripe direction [100] or [010], very likely reduces the LTT tilting angle because of the symmetry mismatch. This decrease of the tilt- ing angle will shift the phase boundary between stripes formation and superconductivity to lower x and will sub- stantially enhance T c of the sample in the critical region. From these considerations, we believe that the extremely large uniaxial and anisotropic pressure effect within the CuO 2 planes in La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 is realized by an intimate interplay of the strain-stripe coupling mediated by the lattice distortion and the stripe criticality.
The remarkable uniaxial pressure effect observed in this study should help to clarify the longstanding is- sue of the interplay between stripes and high temper- ature superconductivity and, as a result, might shed new light on the high-T c problem. First, by checking for this anisotropy, we may identify the contribution from the stripes and particularly dynamical stripes to supercon- ductivity itself. Indeed, uniaxial pressure measurements are now under progress on samples with Sr content x away from the critical composition x = 0.16, in order to explore the influence of dynamical stripes. Second, using [110] pressure, we should be able to switch the stripe magnet to a superconductor using relatively low pressures of a few kbars, if the sample is located at the stripe side of the critical region. We indeed observed such a stripe magnet to superconductor transition at 1 kbar in a nonsupercon- ducting La 1.65 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.15 CuO 4 , which has a marginally smaller Sr content than the samples shown in  Figures . This magnitude of pressure can be generated quite easily without any special facility. Besides, in contrast with the hydrostatic pressure, the sample in the uniaxial experiments is covered by the piston cylinder only from the top and bottom and beam probes can reach the sam- ple quite easily. It could be possible therefore to carry out a variety of physical measurements, including angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES), neutron diffraction etc., to trace the evolution from stripe magnet to superconductor continuously using the same piece of crystal.
In summary, we have discovered a substantially large in-plane anisotropic uniaxial pressure effect on T c in La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 , located at the critical vicinity to the (static) stripe-superconductivity boundary. This re- sult implies very strong coupling between the stripe for- mation and the anisotropic lattice distortion. The charge ordered state, a self organization of electrons, has a lower symmetry than that of the original lattice and is stabi- lized by coupling to the lattice. In this sense, what we have observed in La 1.64 Eu 0.2 Sr 0.16 CuO 4 should be uni- versal to charge ordered systems in general. Uniaxial pressure has proved itself as an extremely useful probe to explore novel strongly correlated electron systems.
