Abrupt Emergence of Pressure-Induced Superconductivity of 34 K in SrFe 2 As 2 : A Resistivity Study under Pressure 
We report resistivity measurement under pressure in single crystals of SrFe2As2, which is one of the parent materials of Fe-based superconductors. The structural and antiferromagnetic (AFM) transition of T0 = 198 K at ambient pressure is suppressed under pressure, and the ordered phase disappears above Pc ∼ 3.6 − 3.7 GPa. Superconductivity with a sharp transition appears accompanied by the suppression of the AFM state. Tc exhibits a maximum of 34.1 K, which is realized close to the phase boundary at Pc. This Tc is the highest among those of the stoichiometric Fe-based superconductors. 
KEYWORDS: SrFe2As2, superconductivity, pressure, single crystal 
After the discovery of superconductivity at 26 K in F-doped system LaFeAsO 1−x F x (ZrCuSiAs-type struc- ture), 1 various Fe-based materials have been reported to show superconductivity. Among them, AFe 2 As 2 (A = Ca, Sr, and Ba) systems with a ThCr 2 Si 2 -type structure show superconductivity by doping with K or Cs into the A site, or by doping Co into the Fe site. Doping is an effective method of inducing superconductivity in Fe-based superconductors. However, this simultaneously induces the inhomogeneity of the crystal structure and electronic state. The inhomogeneity sometimes makes it difficult to observe the intrinsic properties of the mate- rial. 
Instead of doping, the application of pressure for un- doped compound is also an effective method of induc- ing superconductivity. Pressure-induced superconductiv- ity in AFe 2 As 2 (A = Ca, Sr, and Ba) has been re- ported. The superconductivity of these stoichiomet- ric compounds is important for the study of Fe-based su- perconductors. Concerning CaFe 2 As 2 , its superconduc- tivity has been recognized to be intrinsic, because some groups have reported that the zero-resistance state is observed in a similar pressure range. In the cases of BaFe 2 As 2 and SrFe 2 As 2 , Alireza et al. have reported that Meissner effects appear between 2.5 − 6.0 GPa for BaFe 2 As 2 and between 2.8 − 3.6 GPa for SrFe 2 As 2 using magnetization measurements under pressure. However, Fukazawa et al. have observed no zero-resistance state at pressures of up to 13 GPa in BaFe 2 As 2 . 12 On the other hand, Kumar et al. performed resistivity measurement at pressures of up to 3 GPa in SrFe 2 As 2 and reported that the onset of superconductivity appears above 2.5 GPa, but they observed no zero-resistance state up to 3 GPa. Quite recently, Igawa et al. have reported that the zero- resistance state was realized below 10 K at a high pres- sure of 8 GPa in SrFe 2 As 2 , but that the transition was broad. 14 No consensus on pressure-induced superconduc- tivity in BaFe 2 As 2 and SrFe 2 As 2 has been arrived at yet. 
In this paper, we report the results of resistivity mea- * surements in single-crystalline samples of SrFe 2 As 2 up to 4.3 GPa. This is the first resistivity measurement above 3 GPa using single-crystalline samples. In our measure- ments, the zero-resistance state below T c = 34 K with a sharp transition was observed above 3.5 GPa. 
Single-crystalline samples were prepared by the Sn- flux method as reported in ref. . Electrical resistiv- ity (ρ) measurement at high pressures was carried out using an indenter cell. ρ was measured by a four- probe method while introducing a flow of current along the ab plane. Daphne oil 7373 was used as a pressure- transmitting medium. Applied pressure was estimated from the T c of the lead manometer. Resistivity measure- ment under pressure was performed for two settings us- ing different samples and almost the same results were obtained between two samples. 
a) and 1(b) show the temperature depen- dences of ρ at several pressures of up to 4.3 GPa. A clear anomaly was observed at 198 K at ambient pressure, which is similar to that of Yan et al.'s sample. This tem- perature, denoted as T 0 , corresponds to the structural transition temperature and the simultaneous magnetic transition temperature. The magnetic structure of SrFe 2 As 2 has been reported to be a collinear antiferro- magnetic (AFM) one. The T 0 of our sample is lower than that of Kumar et al.'s sample. ρ shows a small jump at T 0 in our sample and the jump becomes remark- able under pressure, in contrast to other measurements under pressure. The reason why the jump appears in our sample is unclear at present, but this behavior is understood to be induced by the reconstruction of the Fermi surface owing to the AFM transition, and resem- bles that of CaFe 2 As 2 . 8, 9 Thus, we define the temper- ature at the jump as T 0 on the analogy of CaFe 2 As 2 , as shown in . As shown in the figure, T 0 de- creases with increasing pressure and reaches ∼ 100 K at 3.57 GPa. No signature of the transition at T 0 was ob- served above 3.77 GPa, indicating the disappearance of the AFM state. The critical pressure between the AFM state and the paramagnetic (PM) state is estimated to 
(color online) Temperature dependence of the in-plane re- sistivity in SrFe 2 As 2 below (a) 300 and (b) 180 K. The arrows indicate the structural and AFM phase transition temperature T 0 . The transition disappears above Pc ∼ 3.6 − 3.7 GPa. The inset of Fig. (a) shows the hysteresis around T 0 for the tempera- ture history at 3.22 GPa. Superconductivity with zero resistance is observed above approximately Pc. The maximum Tc is 34.1 K at 3.77 GPa, as shown in the inset of Fig. (b). be P c ∼ 3.6 − 3.7 GPa. The inset of (a) displays ρ(T ) of around T 0 at 3.22 GPa. A small hysteresis was observed between cooling and warming, indicative of the first-order phase transition. The onset of superconductivity appears above ∼ 3 GPa but the transition is quite broad, similarly to that observed in the experiments by Kumar et al. A zero- resistance state is observed above 3.47 GPa, and the tran- sition becomes sharper above 3.77 GPa where the AFM state is no longer realized. In this paper, T c is defined by the temperature of the zero resistance. The maximum T c was 34.1 K at 3.77 GPa, as shown in the inset of . This T c is close to 37 − 38 K of the doped sys- tems (Ba 0.6 K 0.4 )Fe 2 As 2 and (K 0.4 Sr 0.6 )Fe 2 As 2 . 2, 3 Above 3.77 GPa, T c is almost constant but slightly decreases with increasing pressure. shows ρ(T ) under magnetic field at 4.15 GPa, when the magnetic field was applied along the ab-plane. T c decreases from 30 K at 0 T to ∼ 27 K at 8 T. The initial slope was estimated to be −0.35 K/T, giv- ing H c2 ∼ 86 T by linear extrapolation. These values are comparable to those of other Fe-based compounds. shows the pressure-temperature phase dia- gram of SrFe 2 As 2 . The initial slope of T 0 was estimated 
(color online) Temperature dependence of resistivity un- der magnetic fields of 0, 2, 4, 6, and 8 T in SrFe 2 As 2 under 4.15 GPa. The inset shows the field dependence of Tc. The initial slope is estimated to be −0.35 K/T. to be dT 0 /dP ∼ −13 K/GPa, which is the same as that of Kumar et al. The ordered phase was markedly suppressed above 3 GPa, and no signature of the AFM state was observed at 3.77 GPa. The ordered state up to 3 GPa is confirmed to have an orthorhombic crystal structure. The superconductivity appears from slightly below P c ∼ 3.6 − 3.7 GPa, and exhibits the highest T c = 34.1 K in the PM state close to P c . In CaFe 2 As 2 , another structural phase transition from the tetragonal phase to the "collapsed" tetragonal one 
(color online) Pressure-temperature phase diagram for SrFe 2 As 2 and pressure-dependence of ρ at 35 K. T 0 decreases with application of pressure, and the slope becomes steeper above ∼ 3 GPa. The magnetically ordered phase most likely disappears at around Pc ∼ 3.6 − 3.7 GPa. There is no distinct anomaly in ρ(35K) at around Pc. Superconductivity appears above 3.5 GPa accompanied by the suppression of the AFM state. Information on the crystal structure was obtained from ref. 13. has been reported under high pressure, 20 which can be detected by ρ(T ). In contrast, there is no corresponding distinct anomaly above P c in SrFe 2 As 2 . In CaFe 2 As 2 , the pressure dependence of the residual resistivity indicates the anomalous behavior of a dome shape. We plot the pressure-dependence of ρ at 35 K for SrFe 2 As 2 in the upper panel of the figure, but ρ(35K) shows a gradual decrease under pressure, and no anomalous behavior was observed for SrFe 2 As 2 . 
(color online) Pressure-temperature phase diagram for SrFe 2 As 2 at around Pc and pressure dependence of ∆Tc = T onset c Tc. The superconducting transition is sharp above Pc, whereas ∆Tc is wide below Pc. T onset c is almost independent of pressure. is the pressure-temperature phase diagram around the phase boundary. We plotted the onset tem- perature of superconductivity, T onset c , and the transition width, ∆T c = T onset c − T c . The zero-resistance state is observed even in the narrow pressure range below P c . In the Fe-based superconductors, it is a controversial is- sue whether superconductivity can coexist with the AFM state. Since the resistivity is macroscopic measure- ment and is sensitive to superconductivity, it is generally difficult to discuss this issue. However, note that ∆T c is unusually wide below P c . In contrast, ∆T c becomes markedly sharper above P c . The minimum ∆T c is 0.75 K at 3.83 GPa. This indicates that the PM state fa- vors superconductivity and that the AFM state prevents the occurrence of superconductivity in SrFe 2 As 2 . The su- perconductivity with a wide ∆T c below P c implies non bulk superconductivity. The transition from the tetrag- onal structure to the orthorhombic one is of the first order. As seen in the inset of , the transition at T 0 is of the first order even close to P c . At high pres- sures and low temperatures, the pressure distribution is inevitable. If the transition at P c is of the first order, the pressure distribution is expected to induce phase separa- tion. We speculate that the observed superconductivity below P c originates from the phase-separated PM phase. This is supported by the fact that T onset c is almost in- dependent of pressure below P c . However, if the phase separation is realized at around P c , we expect the en- hancement of ρ at low temperatures at around P c owing to scattering at the domain boundary. As shown in , there is no anomalous behavior in ρ(35K) at around P c within experimental error. The phase separation and co- existence of superconductivity and magnetism are still an open question, and confirmation by microscopic mea- surements is required. 
To our knowledge, the pressure-temperature phase diagram of SrFe 2 As 2 has been reported by three groups. Our phase diagram is almost consistent with that of Kumar et al., although their resistivity mea- surements have been performed only up to 3 GPa. On the other hand, the phase diagrams by Alireza et al. 
and Igawa et al. are different from ours. Alireza et al. have used a single-crystalline sample and Daphne oil 7373 as a pressure transmitting medium, which are the same as those used in our measurements. In their phase diagram, the superconductivity of T c ∼ 27 K appears abruptly at 2.8 GPa and disappears above 3.6 GPa. The pres- sure region of superconductivity is quite different. On the other hand, Igawa et al. have used a polycrystalline sample, and Fluorinert (FC-77:FC-70 = 1:and NaCl as a pressure transmitting medium. The onset of super- conductivity was observed in a wide pressure range, and zero resistance below 10 K was realized at a high pres- sure of 8 GPa. The T onset c at around 3 − 4 GPa is almost the same as that in our measurements, but the zero- resistance state is different. In their phase diagram, the AFM state is drawn to survive up to 8 GPa. The dif- ferences between samples and/or pressure-transmitting mediums are considered to induce the inconsistency be- tween the obtained phase diagrams. 
To summarize, we have investigated the resistivity un- der pressure in a single-crystalline SrFe 2 As 2 up to 4.3 GPa. According to our resistivity measurement, the mag- netically ordered phase most likely disappears abruptly above P c ∼ 3.6 − 3.7 GPa, and superconductivity ap- pears above approximately P c ; however, other experi- mental methods are required to confirm whether this phase diagram reflects bulk properties. The maximum T c was 34.1 K for the pressure-induced superconductivity in stoichiometric SrFe 2 As 2 , which is close to 37 − 38 K of the doped systems. The maximum T c is realized in the PM state close to P c . This gives us two different scenar- ios. One is that the instability of the AFM state plays an important role in superconductivity. Another is that the AFM state obstructs the optimized situation for higher T c . Systematic investigations are needed to elucidate the relation between superconductivity and magnetism, but the stoichiometric system SrFe 2 As 2 is a good candidate for treating this issue. 
We thank Y. Hara and T. Kawazoe for experimen- tal assistance. This work has been partly supported by Grant-in-Aids for Scientific Research (Nos. 19105006, 19204036, 19014016, and 20045010) from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology (MEXT) of Japan. 
