Temperature -pressure phase diagram of the superconducting iron pnictide LiFeP
Electrical-resistivity and magnetic-susceptibility measurements under hydrostatic pressure up to p ≈ 2.75 GPa have been performed on superconducting LiFeP. A broad superconducting (SC) region exists in the temperature -pressure (T − p) phase diagram. No indications for a spin-density-wave transition have been found, but an enhanced resistivity coefficient at low pressures hints at the presence of magnetic fluctuations. Our results show that the superconducting state in LiFeP is more robust than in the isostructural and isoelectronic LiFeAs. We suggest that this finding is related to the nearly regular [FeP4] tetrahedron in LiFeP.
The recently discovered iron-based superconductors at- tract a great deal of interest because of their high critical temperatures up to T c = 55 K. Soon after the dis- covery of superconductivity in the iron and nickel based oxyphosphides, LaFePO 1 and LaNiPO, 2 superconductiv- ity was found in LaFeAsO 0.89 F 0.11 ("1111" type) with a critical temperature of about 26 K. Furthermore, the application of hydrostatic pressure leads to an increase of T c up to 43 K at about 4 GPa. The superconductiv- ity in iron-pnictide compounds is closely related to their layered structure, where the iron-pnictide layers are in- terlaced with charge reservoir layers. Electron or hole doping, both inside and outside of the iron-pnictide lay- ers, strongly affects the superconducting properties.
The effect of external pressure on the structural and electronic properties of the iron-based supercon- ductors can be subtle.
In La(O 1−x F x )FeAs and Sm(O 1−x F x )FeAs the application of pressure revealed an anisotropic lattice compressibility at low pressures, 9 which results in a significant modification of elec- tronic density of states (DOS). In optimally doped La(O 1−x F x )FeAs T c decreases linearly with increasing pressure up to 30 GPa. This decrease is accompanied by the lattice properties becoming less anisotropic. The close connection between structural properties and su- perconductivity is further shown in ReFeAsO 1−x (Re = rare-earth metal). Here, T c attains its maximum value where the [FeAs 4 ] units form a regular tetrahedron. In Ba(Fe 0.92 Co 0.08 ) 2 As 2 ("122" type) the uniaxial pres- sure dependencies of T c are highly anisotropic and quite pronounced. T c is anticipated to increase with increas- ing c/a ratio. Superconductivity was reported in the "111"-type ma- terials LiFeAs and NaFeAs. In contrast to the "1111" and "122" compounds and to the isostructural NaFeAs no signature of a spin-density-wave (SDW) or structural transition has been observed in LiFeAs re- gardless of having a similar charge density in the FeAs layers. Recently, Deng et al. discovered superconduc- tivity below 6 K in the As free "111" compound LiFeP, which is isostructural and isoelectronic to LiFeAs and can be considered as compressed LiFeAs. The occurrence of bulk superconductivity in both stoichiometric LiFeAs and LiFeP makes them special among the iron-pnictide materials. So far bulk superconductivity in a stoichio- metric member of the iron-arsenides and its isostructural phosphorous homolog has not been reported to the best of our knowledge. External pressure and isoelectronic chemical substitution have a different effect on the crys- tal structure. This allows for a detailed study of the influence of structural properties on superconductivity. In this paper we study the effect of hydrostatic pres- sure on LiFeP by electrical-resistivity (ρ) and magnetic- susceptibility (χ AC ) experiments.
LiFeP polycrystalls were synthesized as described in Deng et al. . We carried out four-probe electrical- resistivity and AC-susceptibility measurements under hy- drostatic pressure using a physical property measure- ment system (PPMS, Quantum Design) and a commer- cial flow cryostat, respectively, utilizing a LR700 resis- tance/mutual inductance bridge (Linear Research). A compensated coil system placed outside of the pres- sure cell was used for the AC-susceptibility experiments. Pressures up to 2.75 GPa were generated using a double- layer piston-cylinder type pressure cell. Silicone fluid served as pressure transmitting medium. The pressure was determined at low temperatures by monitoring the pressure-induced shift of the superconducting transition temperature of lead placed close to the sample. The nar- row width of the transition confirmed the good hydro- static pressure conditions inside the cell.
The temperature dependence of the electrical resis- tivity of LiFeP at three representative pressures is de- picted in . In the normal state ρ(T ) exhibits a good metallic behavior with no evidence for a SDW in- stability which is found in many of the "1111"-or "122"- type iron-pnictide materials. A residual resistivity ra- tio RRR = ρ 300K /ρ 0 ≈ 43 at atmospheric pressure confirms the good quality of our polycrystalline sam- ple. Here, ρ 300K is the resistivity at 300 K and ρ 0 the residual resistivity. At low temperatures, a sharp de- crease of ρ(T ) to zero marks the onset of superconductiv- ity, which is observed in the whole investigated pressure range (p ≤ 2.75 GPa). The low-temperature normal-
Electrical resistivity, 1.8 K ≤ T ≤ 300 K, of LiFeP for three representative pressures. The upper inset depicts the pressure dependence of the residual resistivity ρ0 and the prefactor A obtained from a fit of ρ(T ) = ρ0 +AT 2 to the low- temperature normal-state resistivity. Details are given in the text. The lower inset displays the pressure dependence of the ratio ρ0/ρ300 K, where ρ300 K is the resistivity at T = 300 K.
state resistivity follows a T 2 dependence at all pressures indicating a Fermi-liquid state. The pressure dependence of the parameters ρ 0 and A of a ρ(T . The observation of a T 2 behavior at such ele- vated temperatures hints at the presence of strong elec- tronic correlations. The temperature coefficient A is a measure of the quasiparticle -quasiparticle (QP -QP) scattering rate. A(p) decreases by a factor of 1.6 from atmospheric pressure to p = 2 GPa and stays constant with further increasing pressure, indicating a reduction of the QP -QP scattering rate for p ≤ 2 GPa. The en- hanced QP -QP scattering rate at low pressures might be a hint for the presence of spin fluctuations and indi- cate the proximity of LiFeP to magnetic order at ambient pressure despite no direct evidence for long-range mag- netic order has been found neither in LiFeP nor in its homolog LiFeAs. At ambient pressure, we find the onset of the resis- tive transition at about ≈ 6 K in good agreement with the literature. Further on, we will use the ρ(T ) = 0 criterion to define T c from our resistivity data. With in- creasing pressure the superconducting transition shifts to lower temperatures (see ). The width of the transi- tion is nearly pressure independent up to p ≈ 2.25 GPa, even though the onset becomes more rounded before a noticeable broadening becomes evident. The significant broadening is accompanied by an increase of the low tem- perature normal-state resistivity, which is basically pres- sure independent below p ≈ 2 GPa. This behavior is intrinsic to the sample and not caused by, e.g. cracks in the sample, since the room-temperature resistivity, ρ 300K (p), decreases monotonously upon increasing pres-
Low-temperature electrical resistivity of LiFeP as function of temperature for different pressures as indicated. The inset displays the AC susceptibility and the electrical resistivity at p = 0.38 GPa in the temperature region around the superconducting transition.
sure. This is also evidenced by the strong increase of the ratio ρ 0 (p)/ρ 300K (p) (see lower inset in ).
In addition to ρ(T ) we measured χ AC (T ) on the same sample and at the same pressures. χ AC (T ) exhibits a narrow, step-like feature at the superconducting transi- tion. ρ(T ) reaches zero right at the temperature where χ AC (T ) exhibits the onset of the diamagnetic response. Above p = 0.79 GPa, T c drops out of our measurement window for χ AC . The inset of shows χ AC (T ) and, for comparison, ρ(T ) at p = 0.38 GPa. The evolution of T c with increasing p is depicted in . The nar- row width of the superconducting transition in resistivity and, further, the good correspondence between T c deter- mined by the ρ(T ) and the χ AC (T ) in the T − p phase diagram is unusual for superconductivity in stoichiomet- ric "1111" and "122" materials. There, quite often zero resistance is found without any indication for bulk super- conductivity or a very broad transition is observed (e.g. Ref. .
To determine the superconducting upper-critical field, H c2 (T ), we conducted measurements of the electrical re- sistivity in magnetic fields. H c2 vs. T curves at differ- ent pressures are displayed in . H c2 (T ) exhibits a roughly linear temperature dependence in the accessible temperature range (T ≥ 1.8 K) with the exception of the first data point in magnetic field (µ 0 H = 0.5 T), which indicates the presence of a small tail. A simi- lar tail has been previously reported in other iron-based superconductors. As possible origin of the tail multi- band effects were discussed. Increasing pressure sup- presses H c2 (T ) effectively and, correspondingly, the ab- solute value of the slope µ 0 dH c2 (T )/dT of a straight- line fit to the data decreases from 1.92 T/K at 0.01 GPa to 0.95 T/K at 1.42 GPa. Furthermore, with increas-
Temperature -pressure phase diagram of LiFeP. The solid symbols correspond to results from ρ(T ) measurements. T infl. c is defined by the inflection point of ρ(T ) and T zero c by the temperature where zero resistivity is obtained. The open symbols correspond to Tc determined by χAC (T ) experiments. T onset c marks the onset of the diamagnetic response and T full c the full transition.
ing magnetic field the superconducting transition in ρ(T ) gradually broadens as shown for p = 0.01 GPa in the in- set of . The broadening of the resistive transition on increasing magnetic field indicates an anisotropy of H c2 (T ) as anticipated for a quasi-two-dimensional elec- tronic structure. In comparison with LiFeAs, LiFeP can be viewed as compressed LiFeAs. At 5.5 − 6.5 GPa T c of LiFeAs matches T c of LiFeP at atmospheric pressure: LiFeAs "becomes" LiFeP. The lattice parameters obtained for LiFeP are a = 3.692Å, c = 6.031Å 22 compared to a = 3.670Å, c = 6.108Å for LiFeAs at 6.54 GPa. The lattice parameters a and c in LiFeAs are contracted by 2.7% and 3.9%, respectively, at 6.54 GPa, whereas the replacement of As by P reveals a highly anisotropic contraction of a and c by 2.1% and 5.1%, respectively. This leads to a smaller structural anisotropy in LiFeP compared to LiFeAs at 6.54 GPa. It has been pointed out for the iron-pnictides that T c attains maximum val- ues when the [FePn 4 ], where P n = P, As, form a regular tetrahedron. At ambient pressure the [FeP 4 ] tetrahe- dron of LiFeP is only slightly distorted with α = 108.58 • and β = 109.92 • , while LiFeAs at 6.54 GPa pos- sesses a highly distorted tetrahedron α = 99.39 • and β = 114.70 • . The bond angle of a regular tetrahe- dron is 109.47 • . A nearly perfect [FeP 4 ] tetrahedron in LiFeP, but a highly distorted [FeAs 4 ] tetrahedron in LiFeAs and taking into account a similar T c in both ma- terials suggest that the perfectness of the [FePn 4 ] tetra- hedron is not the determining property for the value of T c. Moreover, our result suggests that changes in the DOS other than those strictly related to the perfect- ness of the [FePn 4 ] tetrahedron are governing the value
Magnetic field -temperature phase diagram of LiFeP for different pressures. The dashed lines at p = 0.01 and 1.42 GPa are serving as an example of the linear fits to the data. The inset shows the resistivity data for p = 0.01 GPa for different magnetic fields. The zero-resistivity criterion was used for determining Tc.
of T c . However, our experiments reveal that supercon- ductivity in LiFeP is more robust than in LiFeAs. In LiFeAs T c (p) decreases linearly on increasing pressure in the whole pressure range up to ∼ 10 GPa. The initial slope of T c (p) |dT c (p)/dp | p=0 | = 1.23 K/GPa for LiFeP is significantly smaller compared to the value in LiFeAs, |dT c (p)/dp | p=0 | = (1.56 ∼ 2) K/GPa. Since T c (p) decreases linearly in LiFeAs, the same significant differ- ence in the slopes of T c (p) is present when we compare them where the T c 's of LiFeP at p = 0 and LiFeAs un- der pressure (5.5 − 6.5 GPa) are matching. This clearly indicates that the superconductivity in LiFeP is more ro- bust than in LiFeAs. This is furthermore supported by a decreasing slope of T c (p) upon increasing pressure in LiFeP (see ). Therefore, our study suggests that a more regular [FePn 4 ] tetrahedron "strengthens" the su- perconducting state, but is not determining the size of T c . We will now turn to the unusual increase of the low- temperature normal-state resistivity above p ≈ 2 GPa. While the residual resistivity, ρ 0 (p), increases by about 1/3 from 1.68 GPa to 2.75 GPa, the A coefficient stays nearly pressure independent in this pressure range. This indicates that the QP-QP scattering rate does not change, but additional contributions to the residual scat- tering appear and become stronger upon increasing pres- sure. Since, as we discussed before, ρ 300K (p) decreases in the mentioned pressure range and, thus, we can exclude an extrinsic reason and, clearly, pressure does not add im- purities, a different scattering mechanism has to be con- sidered. An increase of ρ 0 (p) is generally caused by addi- tional disordered scattering centers. A similar increase of the resistivity at low temperatures is observed in LiFeAs, but at much higher pressures p 11 GPa. There, it has been proposed that additional disordered scatter- ing centers created by local magnetic ordering cause the enhanced ρ 0 . Increasing pressure reduces the in-plane Fe-Fe distance and concomitantly enhances local mag- netic correlations leading to additional magnetic scatter- ing centers.
In summary, we have studied the T − p phase diagram of the iron-pnictide superconductor LiFeP. Our experi- ments evidence a more robust superconducting state than in the isostructural homolog LiFeAs. We relate this to the nearly regular [FePn 4 ] tetrahedron in LiFeP in con- trast to the highly distorted one in LiFeAs. However we do not find a general relationship of the bond an- gle α and T c as suggested in literature. Furthermore, we observe an enhanced QP-QP scattering rate at low pressures, which might indicate the presence of spin fluc- tuations. However further studies are needed to verify this speculation.