Superconductivity in a layered cobalt oxyhydrate Na 0.31 CoO 2 •1.3H 2 O
We report the electrical, magnetic and thermal measurements on a layered cobalt oxyhydrate Na0.31CoO2•1.3H2O. Bulk superconductivity at 4.3 K has been confirmed, however, the measured superconducting fraction is relatively low probably due to the sample's intrinsic two-dimensional characteristic. The compound exhibits weak-coupled and extreme type-II superconductivity with the average energy gap ∆a(0) and the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ of ∼ 0.50 meV and ∼ 140, respectively. The normalized electronic specific heat data in the superconducting state well fit the T 3 dependence, suggesting point nodes for the superconducting gap structure.
PACS numbers: 74.70.-b, 74.25.-q, 74.20.Rp Keywords: Cobalt oxyhydrate superconductor, Type-II superconductivity, Superconducting gap structure
The recent discovery of superconductivity in a two- dimensional cobalt oxyhydrate has been spurring new round of intense interest in the field of superconductivity research. It was mentioned that the cobalt oxy- hydrate superconductor resembles the high-T c cuprates in the two-dimensional (2D) MO 2 (M=Co or Cu) lay- ers and the existence of spin 1/2 for Co 4+ and Cu 2+ ions, though their difference is obvious for the triangular CoO 2 sheets in contrast with the nearly tetragonal CuO 2 planes. The fact that the superconductivity is derived from the intercalation of H 2 O into the host Na 0.35 CoO 2 , which itself is not a superconductor, suggests that strong two-dimensionality be important for the appearance of superconductivity .
The related theoretical work has been performed quickly, though some basic physical property character- izations of the new superconductors have not been re- ported yet. By employing the t−J model on a planar tri- angular lattice, different kinds of superconducting states, such as time-reversal-symmetry-breaking d x 2 −y 2 + id xy superconductivity , and spin triplet supercon- ductivity have been proposed. Based on the den- sity functional calculation, Singh also speculates that a triplet superconducting state may exist in this kind of material. In a word, exotic superconductivity in the new system seems to be a consensus for theorists. To verify the theoretical result, therefore, the experimental inves- tigations becomes very crucial on this topic.
Unfortunately, the development on the experimental aspect goes relatively slowly. One of the major reasons is that the preparation of samples is not optimized at present. The other reason concerns about the chemical instability of the oxyhydrate superconductor. It was re- ported that the material is exceptionally sensitive to both temperature and humidity near ambient conditions, which makes the experimental reproducibility rather dif- ficult. Consequently, only a few experimental results, such as the magnetic properties and the hydrostatic pressure effect on T c have just been reported. Al-though some unconventional magnetic properties were revealed for the new superconductor , other basic prop- erties such as the low-temperature specific heat have not been reported yet for this newly-discovered supercon- ductor. We recently succeeded in preparing the cobalt oxyhydrate superconductor using a modified synthetic route . The problem of the sample's instability was overcome to some extent by employing suitable experi- mental procedure. In this Letter, we report some super- conducting and normal-state properties of this intriguing compound.
Our samples of Na 0.31 CoO 2 •1.3H 2 O were prepared in four steps, briefly described as follows. First, single- phase hexagonal Na 0.74 CoO 2 was prepared by a solid- state reaction at 1083 K in flowing oxygen with Na 2 CO 3 and Co 3 O 4 as the starting material. Second, partial sodium in Na 0.74 CoO 2 was deintercalated by the exces- sive bromine solved in acetonitrile, similar to the treat- ment reported previously . Third, a hydration pro- cess was carried out by the direct reaction with distilled water. Last, the sample was slightly dehydrated and then "annealed" under ambient condition. Powder X- ray Diffraction (XRD) measurement indicates that the final product is a hexagonal single phase with the cell constants of a=2.820Å and c=19.65Å . The unit cell is slightly stretched along the c-axis, compared with that of the previous report . This is probably due to the difference in the Na content. By employing the Atomic absorption spectroscopy, the atomic ratio of Na and Co was determined as 0.31 for the final product. Thermo- gravimetric analysis shows that the weight loss from 293 K to 693 K is 19.8 %, indicating that the content of H 2 O is about 1.3 per formula. Therefore, the chemical formula of the final product is expressed as Na 0.31 CoO 2 •1.3H 2 O. Details of the sample's preparation and characterizations will be given elsewhere .
The physical property measurements were performed at the temperature down to 1.8 K and under the field up to 8 Tesla, on a Quantum Design PPMS system. While measured under "zero field", there still exists a remanent field of ∼ 1 Oe. The precisions of ac magnetic suscep- tibility (χ ac ) and dc susceptibility (χ dc ) are better than ∼ 10 −7 emu and ∼ 10 −5 emu, respectively. The electri- cal resistivity (ρ) was measured in a standard four-probe configuration using a pressed sample bar. The heat ca- pacity was measured using an automated relaxation tech- nique with a square piece of ∼ 20 mg sample. The con- tribution from the addenda has been subtracted. It is noted that the handling of the sample and the detailed measurement procedure sometimes affect the experimen- tal result very much. So, we kept the same experimental condition for the different measurements. (a) shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility at low temperatures for the Na 0.31 CoO 2 •1.3H 2 O sample. The real part of ac suscep- tibility χ ′ shows the onset of diamagnetism at 4.3 K, followed by a broad superconducting transition, similar to the original report . The diamagnetic screening sig- nal at 1.9 K is 9.2 % of the full shielding when the ac field amplitude (H ac ) is 2 Oe, suggesting relatively low superconducting fraction. Considering that the χ ′ value is not flat down to 1.9 K, the superconducting volume fraction will be over 10 % under the remanent field of ∼ 1 Oe. The imaginary component of the ac susceptibil- ity shows an incomplete dissipation peak, also suggesting that the superconducting transition is not finished yet at 1.9 K. The dc susceptibility under 30 Oe shows even low magnetic exclusion, which is primarily due to the very low H c1 value as well as the magnetic penetration (see the result below). An irreversible temperature can be noticed, like that observed in the high T c cuprates.
From the structural and chemical bonding points of view, the present system should have very weak coupling between the CoO 2 layers, resulting in a strong 2D su- perconductivity. It is proposed that the relatively low superconducting fraction is mainly due to the sample's intrinsic 2D characteristic. The following observations are coincident with this point. First, the superconduct- ing transition is broad. Second, zero resistance can never be achieved in our experiments as well as the previous re- port . Third, the diamagnetic signal is enhanced when decreasing H ac . Similar result was reported for a 2D or- ganic superconductor (BEDT-TTF) 2 Cu(NCS) 2 . It should be pointed out that the low superconducting frac- tion is not mainly due to the sample's instability, because our XRD experiment shows that the sample contains no secondary phases before and after the magnetic suscep- tibility measurements. (a) shows the magnetization loop at 1.9 K for the Na 0.31 CoO 2 •1.3H 2 O sample. Narrow field hystere- sis was observed, superposed with a paramagnetic back- ground which can be described by the Brillouin func- tion. The amplificatory plot using the upper-right co- ordinates indicates the type-II superconductivity with H c1 of about 10 Oe at 1.9 K. By the data fitting
Temperature dependence of ac magnetic suscepti- bility at zero field for Na0.31CoO2•1.3H2O powdered sample. The inset shows the dc magnetic susceptibility under the field H=30 Oe. Hac, Tirr, FC and ZFC refer to the ac field am- plitude, irreversible temperature, field cooling and zero-field cooling, respectively. of H c1 (T ) using the well-known equation: H c1 (T ) = H c1 (0)[1 − (T /T c ) 2 ], H c1 (0) can be obtained as 13 Oe. The H c2 value is difficult to be measured by the M − H curve due to the very narrow hysteresis. Nevertheless, by measuring the electrical resistance at fixed temper- atures, one can basically obtain the H c2 (T ) data, as shown in figure 2(b). H c2 (T ) is here determined as the point where the resistance deviates from the linearity in the R − H 2 curves . The slope of H c2 at T c , dH c2 /dT | Tc , is obtained as −34 kOe/K. H c2 (0) can thus be estimated to be 1×10 5 Oe, using the WHH for- mula . Then, the average Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherent length ξ GL (0)=57Å can be calculated using the formula ξ GL (0)=(Φ 0 /2πH c2 (0) 1/2 . On the other hand, by solving the equation H c1 = Φ 0 ln(λ/ξ)/4πλ 2 , the average penetration depths can also be obtained: λ(0)=7900Å . Therefore, the Ginzburg-Landau param- eter κ = λ/ξ GL is estimated as ∼ 140, indicating that the cobalt oxyhydrate is an extreme type-II supercon- ductor, like the high-T c cuprates. This conclusion has also been drawn in a very recent report , in which dif- ferent method was employed to determine the H c2 (T ). It is worth while to note that, compared with the previ- ous result, the values of H c1 (0) and H c2 (0) in the present sample are remarkably smaller, which is possibly resulted from the differences in the carrier-doping level and/or the water content. The result of low-temperature specific heat measure- ment is shown in figure . At temperatures much below the Debye temperature Θ D , and if neglected the possi- ble magnetic contribution, the specific heat can be ex- pressed as the sum of electron and phonon contributions: C = γT + βT 3 , where the coefficient γ is generally called
Magnetic field dependence of magnetization (a) and electrical resistance (b) at certain temperatures. Note that the upper-right axes are employed for the amplificatory plot in (a). The inset of (b) shows the temperature dependence of the upper critical field Hc2. Sommerfeld parameter. The phonon contribution can be separated by employing the T 2 vs C/T plot. It can be seen that good linearity is satisfied in the temperature range of 4.5 K< T <11 K. We thus obtained γ = 15.9 mJ/K 2 •mol-f.u. (f.u. denotes formula unit) and β = 0.235 mJ/K 4 • mol-f.u. Θ D is then calculated to be 391 K using the formula Θ D = (12/5)N π 4 R/β) 1/3 , where N =7.21 for Na 0.31 CoO 2 •1.3H 2 O and R=8.314 J/mol•K. The γ value is significantly smaller than that of the par- ent compound Na 0.5 CoO 2 (γ ∼ 40 mJ/K 2 •mol-Co ). Since the Sommerfeld parameter γ is related to the den- sity of state (DOS) at Fermi level, N (E F ), by the relation where N (0) is the bare, or band-structure electronic DOS at E F , λ ep an electron-phonon interaction parameter , one can ob- tain that N (E F )=6.7 states/eV•f.u. On the other hand, λ ep can be calculated to be 0.57 using the formula where Coulomb repulsion parameter µ * is assumed to be 0.13 empirically . Therefore, N (0) is derived to be 4.3 states/eV•f.u. We note that this value is almost identical to the band calculation result (4.4 states/eV•Co) for the parent compound Na 0.5 CoO 2 . It is noted that the sample's magnetic susceptibility (∼ 2.0×10 −3 emu/mol-f.u) is almost temperature indepen- dent from 30 K to 300 K (not shown here). In order to obtain the Pauli susceptibility χ P auli , the χ(T ) data were fitted using the equation χ = χ 0 + AT 2 + C/(T − θ) . We obtained that χ 0 , A, C and θ are 0.0019 emu/mol, 2.6 ×10 −9 emu/mol•K 2 , 0.0024 emu•K/mol and 1.7 K, respectively. The parameter C gives the small effective magnetic moment of 0.14 µ B . The small positive θ value suggests the existence of weak ferromagnetic correlations. The unusually large χ 0 value should be dominantly con- tributed by χ P auli , which is probably enhanced by the Stoner-type ferromagnetic correlation. The Wilson ra- tio, R W = π 2 k 2 B χ P auli /3γµ 2 B , is calculated to be 11, in sharp contrast with the case of heavy fermion supercon- ductor . At 4.3 K, specific heat anomalies can be seen, which is ascribed to the superconducting transition. The spe- cific heat jump at the T c under zero field, ∆C obs , is 6.9 mJ/K•mol-f.u, further confirming the bulk superconduc- tivity. When applying magnetic field, both the ∆C obs and T c decrease as expected. It is noted that the T c (H) values are basically consistent with the H c2 (T ) result de- scribed above.
The specific jump at T c , ∆C, can be calculated us- ing an approximate formula ∆C = H c (0) 2 /2πT c , where H c (0) is the thermodynamic critical field. H c (0) is found to be 505 Oe by using the formula H c (0) = H c2 (0)/ √ 2κ, where H c2 (0) and κ are 1×10 5 Oe and 140, respec- tively. Then, ∆C should be 38.2 mJ/K•mol-f.u. There- fore, the superconducting fraction is estimated to be ∆C obs /∆C=18.1 %, which is basically consistent with the magnetic susceptibility measurement result. In addi- tion, the average superconducting gap at zero tempera- ture, ∆ a (0), can be obtained using the relation , ∆ a (0) is then obtained to be 0.50 meV. The value of 2∆ a (0)/k B T c is found to be 2.71, suggesting that the system belongs to the weak coupling limit. A further data-analysis was carried out as follows. The lattice specific-heat contribution, C L = βT 3 , was first deducted, obtaining the electronic specific heat term: C el = C − C L . If the superconducting fraction is η, the electronic specific heat of the full superconductor can be normalized as C es =[C el −(1−η)γT ]/η. (b) shows the result with η=18.1 %. The Sommerfeld-parameter jump at the T c , ∆C/T c , becomes 9 mJ/K 2 •mol-f.u. So, the dimensionless parameter ∆C/γT value is about 0.57, which is remarkably lower than the expected value 1Low-temperature specific heat result of the Na0.31CoO2•1.3H2O superconductor. (a) plot of C/T vs T 2 . The arrows in the inset point to the Tc under different field. (b) temperature dependence of the normalized Sommerfeld parameter. The electronic specific heat data in the super- conducting state, Ces(T ), was fitted using different formula containing just one fitting parameter (the coefficient). for an isotropic gap. This suggests that the supercon- ducting order parameter is basically not a s-wave.
As we know, the temperature dependence of C es may give important information on the structure of the su- perconducting gap. At the temperatures far below T c , the temperature dependences of C es (T ) ∝ exp(−bT c /T ) with b ∼ 1.5, C es (T ) ∝ T 3 and C es (T ) ∝ T 2 indicate an isotropic BCS gap, point nodes and gap-zeroes along lines in the superconducting gap structure, respectively . Though the extra-low temperature data is absent here due to the experimental limitation, fitting on the present data may give a preliminary clue. In , it can be seen that the T 3 dependence best fits the C es (T ) data, suggesting point nodes for the superconducting gap. It should be mentioned that the T 3 dependence most favors the data in the wide range of 13 % ≤ η ≤ 20 % (When η ≤ 12 %, C es becomes a negative value at 1.8 K).
Based on symmetry and some preliminary experimen- tal results, Tanaka and Hu proposed spin triplet su- perconductivity in the cobalt oxyhydrate. The p-wave superconductivity was also suggested by Baskaran for the higher doping level. Owing to the ferromagnetic cor- relation in the normal state, as stated above, spin-triplet p-wave pairing is very probable. Considered the point nodes for the superconducting gap, therefore, the gap function will be ∆(k)=xk x +ŷk y , which shows the differ- ence from the conclusion in the strontium ruthenate su- perconductor . Obviously, further experiments such as NMR, neutron scattering, and µ SR will be needed to make clearer picture for the symmetry of the supercon- ducting order parameters.