WIGNER LATTICE ORDER, COLLECTIVE MODE, AND SUPERCONDUCTIVITY IN LA 1.985 SR 0.015 CUO 4+δ SYSTEM
We have studied far-infrared charge dynamics of Sr-and O-co-doped La1.985Sr0.015CuO 4+δ with δ = 0.024 (p = 0.063 per Cu) and δ = 0.032 (p = 0.07). We found that two-dimensional Wigner lattice order is the ground state of cuprates away from half-filling. We found that the presence of 2D Wigner lattice and the pinned Goldstone mode is essential for the cuprate physics and superconductivity. We propose that all the high Tc physics are based on the existence of these peculiar 2D electron lattices.
Superconductivity in layered copper-oxides (cuprates) has been one of the important prob- lems in condensed matter physics that still awaits the answer for the underlying mechanism(s) that drives this doped insulator to a superconductor with high transition temperature (T c ). Theoret- ically, the main problem has been finding an adi- abatic connection between the antiferromagnetic order and superconducting order in the quasi two- dimensional (2D) CuO 2 planes upon hole dop- ing. On the antiferromagnetic insulating side, the t-J model, 1 which is derived from the Hubbard model, 2 has been believed to capture the essen- tial physics of CuO 2 planes. As the system is doped with holes, Anderson proposed 3 that the Mott-Hubbard insulator becomes a 2D Luttinger liquid where the spin and charge of electrons are separated into spinons and holons. Later, a philo- sophically different SO(5) theory was proposed by which is a microscopic model with a five-component order parameter that embraces both the antiferromagnetic order corresponding to a charge zero, spin 1 particle-hole pair at half- filling (p = 0) and the superconducting order cor- responding to a charge ± 2e cooper pair spin sin- glet away from half-filling. Experimentally, be- sides antiferromagnetism and superconductivity, spin clusters, spin glass and a highly elusive hole concentration (p)-independent pseudogap in spin excitation and charge spectra are observed in the normal state. Based on the observed rich phys- ical phenomena, a generic electronic phase dia- gram has been generated as a function of tem- perature and hole concentration. Although it is widely recognized that studying this phase dia- gram holds the key to understand the cuprate physics, until now no theory has been able to account for the mere existence of such a phase diagram.
In a recent cation and anion co-doping study of the general properties of the electronic phase di- agram, incipient electronic instabilities related to energetically favored electronic phases were iden- tified at special hole concentrations (p s ). In par- ticular, a p s = 1/16 is observed. This p s = 1/16 corresponds to a previously reported critical hole concentration (p c ) which dictates the doping ef- ficiency and signals a chemical potential jump of the doped holes. This p c = 1/16 is also the point where superconductivity first appears in the phase diagram. In we present the onset T c vs. p curves of La 2−x Sr x CuO 4+δ for x = 0, 0.015, and 0.05. The T c is defined as the onset tem- perature of the Meissner effect. The p of each sample series is varied precisely by small steps of ∆p = 0.0025 ∼ 0.004 using electrochemical ox- idation to change the oxygen concentration, δ. While a single 30K transition is observed for x = 0 samples, a dramatic increase of T c from ∼ 15K to ∼ 30K is clearly seen for both x = 0.015 and 0.05 samples. In particular, for the x = 0.015 sample it is remarkable to observe an almost dis- continuous jump from T c ∼ 16K to 26K by a very small change of carrier concentration ∆p = 0.004 near p c . Since p c = 1/16 is a special carrier con- centration related to a possible electronic phase instability, far-infrared studies of the x = 0.015 sample at various p across p c provides a unique opportunity to investigate the specific role of this instability to the normal state charge dynamics and to the occurrence of the superconductivity in cuprates.
Superconducting onset temperature (T c ) versus hole concentration (p) The nature of charge carriers in the CuO 2 planes (ab-planes) and their interactions may be directly probed by far-infrared reflectivity mea- surements. However, because of the Drude-like free-carrier contributions to the far-infrared con- ductivity, the normal state reflectivity is rather featureless. The only persistent characteristic spectral feature found was the emergence of a doping-independent "knee"-like structure in the reflectivity at ∼ 400 cm −1 (∼ 50 meV) upon cool- ing the sample below T c . This structure mani- fests itself as a broad dip in the frequency de- pendent conductivity for T < T c . The physi- cal origin of the dip has not been resolved. Recently, the dip in YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ systems has been attributed to the coupling of electrons to the 41 meV resonance peak observed in neutron scattering. Also, it was found that there ex- ists substantial residual conductivity in the far- infrared below the dip frequency (ω) ∼ 400 cm −1 even for T < T c. The physical nature of this residual background conductivity and its rele- vance to the superconductivity has not been un- derstood.
Studies of photoinduced carriers in undoped cuprate provide an alternative approach to un- derstand the nature of charge carriers and their interactions with the lattice. Because there is no Drude conductivity, one can clearly dis- cern the carrier-induced background conductiv- ities. Although the spectral features for ω < 200 cm −1 could not been resolved due to the nature of the experiments, the infrared photoin- duced absorption measurements of La 2 CuO 4 and Nd 2 CuO 4 revealed that the photocarriers became self-localized via coupling to the lattice as evi- denced by the photoinduced infrared-active vi- brational modes. Also, there existed an ac- companying electronic excitation peak at ∼ 1000 cm −1 (∼ 0.12 eV) with an onset at ∼ 400 cm −1 . This result was interpreted as the result of phase separation of the photocarriers in the CuO 2 planes into hole-rich domains with local p compa- rable to that of optimally doped cuprates. 14 In this work, we investigated two polycrys- talline x = 0.015 samples at either side of the T c jump near p c . In preparing the sample, dif- ferent electrochemical oxidation techniques have been carefully evaluated 15 and the thermody- namic equilibrium properties of the electrochem- ical intercalation of oxygen into polycrystalline La 2−x Sr x CuO 4+δ system have been studied. Because of the strong anisotropic nature of cuprates where the electromagnetic response is nearly insulating for polarization parallel to the c-axis and conducting for polarization parallel to the ab-plane and because the c-axis far-infrared properties of single crystalline La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 are well-documented, we were able to unambigu- ously identify the in-plane far-infrared charge dy- namics of polycrystalline La 1.985 Sr 0.015 CuO 4+δ sample, which is directly relevant to the normal and superconducting states.
We have carried out far-infrared reflectiv- ity measurements of two different samples of La 1.985 Sr 0.015 CuO 4+δ near p c as a function of temperature for ω between ∼ 7 cm −1 and 5000 cm −1 ; one with δ = 0.024 (or p = 0.063 per Cu) which undergoes the superconducting tran- sition at T c = 16 K and the other at δ = 0.032 (or p = 0.07 per Cu) with T c = 26 K defined as the onset temperature of the Meissner effects shown in the inset of and 2b, respec- tively. Both resistivity ρ vs. T and dρ /dT vs. T curves are depicted in . Al- though they have quite different T c 's, one inter- esting feature in both dρ /dT vs. T curves is a common minimum and maximum observed at ∼ 200K and ∼ 150K. These very similar behaviors suggest that the same physics is in operation for the normal state in both samples. We noted that the Meissner effect signal size of δ = 0.032 sam- ple is larger than that of δ = 0.024 sample. This result indicates that the superconducting state in the δ = 0.032 sample is not due to the forma- tion of oxygen-rich phase. A smaller Meissner effect is expected since there will be a smaller superconducting volume for samples chemically phase-separated into oxygen rich domains. In- deed, there are only two T c 's, one at ∼ 15 K and the other at ∼ 30 K, observed for the entire under- doped regime in the pure oxygen doped equilib- rium samples. This indicates, besides two chem- ical phases, that two T c's might be coming from two different electronic phases.
In this experiment, we directly measured the sample temperature from the backside of the sam- ple. The temperature resolution was (1 ± 0.1) K for T < 40 K. Far-infrared properties, represented by a complex dielectric function ǫ(ω) = ǫ 1 (ω) + 4πiσ 1 (ω)/ω have been calculated from a Kramers-Kronig analysis of the measured reflectivities. For ω < 7 cm −1 , we used an empirical extrapolation scheme . Resistivity and first derivative of resis- tivity versus temperature curves for oxygen co- doped polycrystalline R(ω) ≈ 1 -Cω 1 2 +δ with -1/2 ≤ δ ≤ 1/2 subject to σ 1 (ω → 0) = σ dc where σ dc is the measured dc conductivity. Far-infrared reflectivities of δ = 0.024 and δ = 0.032 samples are shown in at selected temperatures. Besides the contribution due to the well-known in-plane mode at ∼ 500 cm −1 and the intense c-axis phonon mode at ω ∼ 220 cm −1 and a weak mode at ∼ 350 cm −1 , there appears a sharp minimum in the reflectivity at ω ∼ 16 cm −1 that resembles the reflectivity curve in the vicin- ity of the plasma edge of a free electron gas and several unusual notable features. Below the min- imum at ω ∼ 16 cm −1 the reflectivity approaches unity as ω approaches zero. For δ = 0.024 sam- ple, a bump at ω ∼ 25 cm −1 is evident and an- other weak broad feature located at ω ∼ 100 cm −1 on which a sharp peak develops as T decreases. We noted that the reflectivity does not approach unity for frequencies down to ω ∼ 7 cm −1 even in the superconducting state.
For δ = 0.032 sample, in addition to what have already been seen for δ = 0.024 sample, two ad-
Reflectivity versus frequency curves at various temperatures: (a) δ = 0.024 sample and (b) δ = 0.032 sample. ditional bumps are present: one at ω ∼ 45 cm −1 and the other at ω ∼ 80 cm −1 . One remark on the reflectivity data is that because we use poly- crystalline sample, there exist possible errors in determining the absolute reflectivity at ω → 0 due to the overestimation of the reflectivity. We were unable to determine the reflectivity of δ = 0.032 sample for ω < 10 cm −1 to the desired accuracy (< 1 %). During the course of this experiment, we found that the reflectivity in the spectral range between 100 cm −1 and 600 cm −1 are close to true reflectivity of the sample. The uncertainty of the far-infrared reflectivity of δ = 0.032 sample for ω < 10 cm −1 is slightly higher than that of δ = 0.024 sample (∼ 1%). However, this error does not affect our conclusions for ω > 10 cm −1 . The Kramers-Kronig derived real part of con- ductivity σ 1 (ω) and the real part of dielectric function ǫ 1 (ω) of δ = 0.024 sample are displayed in & 4b at various T, respectively. In σ 1 (ω), there appear a sharp upturn approaching σ dc in σ 1 (ω) below 10 cm −1 and an extremely sharp (FWHM ∼ 10 cm −1 ) peak located at ω ∼ 23 cm −1 whose strength increases as T de- creases. We can also observe a broad mode at ∼ 90 cm −1 that becomes pronounced at low T and an electronic excitation peak at ∼ 1000 cm −1 with an onset at ∼ 400 cm −1 . All these fea- tures exist in addition to the well-known ab-plane and c-axis CuO 2 phonon modes. We identify this electronic excitation peak with the lower energy electronic excitation in the photoinduced infrared absorption measurements. All these features in σ 1 (ω) develop on top of a constant, rather fre- quency independent background conductivity of ∼ 10 Ω −1 cm −1 which presumably comes from the c-axis contribution.
Kramers-Kronig derived (a) real part of the conductivity σ 1 (ω) and (b) real part of the dielectric function ǫ 1 (ω) for δ = 0.024 sample. From the ǫ 1 (ω) plot in , it is clear that the reflectivity minimum at ∼ 16 cm −1 arises from the zero crossing of the ǫ 1 (ω) and there is no sign of any corresponding structure seen in the conductivity. Therefore, we assign the reflectiv- ity minimum as the plasma edge due to the free carriers with screened plasma frequency ω p ∼ 16 cm −1 . By assuming the free carrier mass to be the electron mass and using the static dielectric constant ǫ 1 (0) ∼ 40 estimated from ǫ 1 (ω) at 300 K, we find the free carrier concentration n F ∼ 2.3 x 10 17 carriers/cm 3 which is only ∼ 0.4 % of the total carriers in the system. Even though the measured σ dc is in the range of ∼ 100 Ω −1 cm −1 and the observed σ 1 (ω) is the average between the ab-plane and c-axis conductivities, the sharp upturn in σ 1 (ω) toward σ dc at ω < 10 cm −1 in- dicates that the free carriers experience virtually no scattering (Γ ∼ 4 cm −1 ). This observation suggests that the extremely small fraction of free carriers participate in a coherent charge transport in La 1.985 Sr 0.015 CuO 4+δ.
The ǫ 1 (ω) of δ = 0.024 sample clearly reveals that the ω ∼ 23 cm −1 mode is a collective mode (ω GL ) and the 400 cm −1 is the corresponding single particle excitation gap (2∆). One might consider that the origin of this collective mode is from a spin density wave (SDW). However, in this event the entire spectral weight is expected to move to the collective mode of the SDW because the dynamic mass of the SDW is the free elec- tron mass. That is, we do not expect to have the single particle excitation peak. Therefore, this collective mode is resulting from the charge con- densation into a one-dimensional or 2D density wave in the CuO 2 planes and this density wave is pinned as evidenced by the finite frequency of the collective mode.
The spectral weight distribution indicates that almost all the carriers introduced to the CuO 2 planes are spent to form a pinned charge den- sity wave (CDW). Since a pinned CDW is an insulator, 20 the pinned CDW itself cannot give rise to the observed nearly dissipationless metal- lic conductivity. Therefore, the coexistence of a pinned CDW and metallic conductivity demands a channel for coherent charge transport. In order to defy all the scattering with the CuO 2 phonons, the free carriers must "ride" the density wave. In the case of a one-dimensional CDW, forma- tion of topological charged solitons (phase kinks) is a possibility. However, because of the topo- logical nature of the solitons, it requires that both soliton and antisoliton must hop to the neighboring CDW chains to transport charges. Therefore, the observed coherent charge trans- port will not take place through the soliton hop- ping mechanism. In the stripe model, each stripe in the CuO 2 plane is considered as a river of charge and conducting. Hence, no charge gap or pinned collective modes are expected. This point has been verified through the transport 24 and infrared studies of static charge stripes in La 1.6−x Nd 0.4 Sr x CuO 4 systems. Therefore, our observation bears neither the signature of the idea of strings of charges, either static or dynamic, nor the one-dimensional CDW's in the CuO 2 plane.
The other possibility is a 2D Wigner lattice. The observed data may imply that charges (holes in our case) added to the CuO 2 planes con- dense to form a 2D Wigner lattice. The repul- sive Coulomb interaction between the holes at di- lute concentration enables the holes to form a 2D square lattice in the CuO 2 plane. In this model, the ω = 0 Goldstone mode of the Wigner lattice has been shifted to ω GL ∼ 23 cm −1 due to the commensuration pinning of the Wigner lattice to the underlying CuO 2 lattice. Charge-lattice cou- pling would enhance the lock-in of the Wigner lattice with the underlying CuO 2 lattice 13 and stabilize the square lattice by lowering the total energy.
Based on the study of the electronic phase di- agram at well above room temperature (85 o C) where an intrinsic electronic phase instability is observed at exactly p c = 1/16. We can now formally relate our low temperature results to the high temperature special carrier concentra- tion. It seems that this instability survives to low temperature and we suggest that all the doped holes in the CuO 2 plane are condensed to form a (4x4) square Wigner lattice with sides L = 4a (a = Cu-Cu distance). Then, the observed sharp Drude-like free-carrier conductivity in this insu- lating Wigner lattice ground state comes from the coherent charge transport of the excess holes ∆p = p c ∼ 0.0005 per copper which corresponds to ∼ 0.8% of the total carriers in δ = 0.024 sam- ple. In order to achieve such a coherent trans- port of charges, the free-carriers must reside in a state where the scattering with the phonons of the CuO 2 lattice can be avoided. That is, the free carriers need to "ride" the Wigner lattice. In a square lattice model, when an excess hole is intro- duced to the Wigner lattice, it will find an ener- getically lowest location on the lattice. Because of the on-site Coulomb repulsion at the lattice sites, the minimum energy location would be the center of the square lattice. At this location, the excess hole seats in a local harmonic potential with a zero point energy. This hole now may move be- cause it "sees" a periodic harmonic potential in the directions of the neighboring identical energy minima. This causes the zero point energy of the excess holes to be broadened into a band with the width of which is density dependent. This band is gapped by the Coulomb interaction energy at the minimum energy site. For charge carriers in the Coulomb band, the main energy dissipation chan- nel for electrons is through the scattering with acoustic phonons of the Wigner lattice. At high temperatures, there exists possible promotion of holes from the Wigner lattice site to an intersti- tial position and vice versa. A similar idea of an interstitial band has been discussed by de Wette for a three-dimensional electron Wigner lattice. In this band picture, we anticipate two absorp- tion peaks in addition to the transition across the single particle excitation gap: One due to the transition (ω 1 ) from the Coulomb band to the single particle excited state and the other in- volves the transition from the ground state to the Coulomb band (ω 2 ). However, the ω 2 transition from the ground state to the Coulomb band re- quires an energy across the gap less the Coulomb energy change in the lattice which is essentially the same as the static Coulomb energy difference between the occupied lattice site and the intersti- tial lattice site. We suggest that ω 2 is of the order of ∼ 0.012 eV (∼ 100 cm −1 ) as seen in the oxy- gen gas effusion experiments. This implies that the Coulomb energy difference between the occu- pied lattice site and the interstitial lattice site is ∼ 0.025 eV. Therefore, we identify the 90 cm −1 peak with ω 1 with a full width W c ∼ 200 cm −1 (0.025 eV) and the Coulomb band gap is ∼ 300 cm −1 . Note that ω 1 and ω 2 are quite close.
The effective mass of the Wigner lattice (m * ) can be estimated by taking the ratio of the oscilla- tor strength of the collective mode (S GL ) to that of the single particle excitation (S 2∆ ) calculated from the σ 1 (ω) and by applying the sum rule with and S other is the oscillator strength of all other excitations. Using the experimentally estimated oscillator strengths, we found m * ∼ 170 m e at 300 K, ∼ 80 m e at 150 K and ∼ 60 m e at 30 K. This implies that the density waves develop the long- range order at T > 150 K by drawing its strength from the single particle excitations. We shall see later in the oscillator strength vs. T plot that the crossover occurs at T 0 ∼ 200 K. However, we believe that m* is underestimated from the experimental data because the measured reflec- tivity for frequencies above 400 cm −1 is less than true reflectivity due to the ceramic nature of the sample. In addition, symmetric band is assumed to take into account of the spectral weight above 0.5 eV. Fitting for each peak was made using a symmetric Gaussian function as an approxima- tion without taking into account of asymmetry. The Debye frequency (ω D ) of the Wigner lat- tice can be estimated within the harmonic ap- proximation as ω D ≈ (e 2 /ǫ 0 m * L 3 ) 1/2 ∼ 42 cm −1 (∼ 7.8 x 10 12 s −1 ) which gives the Debye temper- ature (θ D ) of 60 K with ǫ 0 ∼ 10, the static di- electric constant of the underlying CuO 2 lattice, and m * ∼ 60m e . Therefore, we expect the linear T-dependence down to 0.2θ D ∼ 12 K 29 since the main energy dissipation channel for electrons is the scattering with the acoustic phonons of the Wigner lattice. Through the oscillator strength calculation, we found only ∼ 0.42 % of the doped carriers are contributing to the Drude-like con- ductivity at T = 300 K which is consistent with the value estimated from the plasma frequency. This is 50% of the available free carriers at p = 0.063 doping. At 300 K, the other 50% may occupy the single particle excited states of the Wigner lattice that might contribute to the inco- herent background conductivity. The deviation from the linear T-dependence of the resistivity in under-doped cuprates is due to additional scat- tering with the lattice defects and domain bound- aries whose fluctuation is dynamic as the Wigner lattice formation is not complete at finite temper- atures. σ 1 (ω) of δ = 0.032 sample, which undergoes the superconducting transition at T c ∼ 26 K, is dis- played in . For δ = 0.032 sample, there are two more structures in σ 1 (ω) in addition to those found in δ = 0.024 sample: A sharp peak at ω ∼ 46 cm −1 and a broader one peaked at ω ∼ 70 cm −1 . Since we know that the δ = 0.032 sample is right at the fast transition region from a T c ∼ 15K state to a T c ∼ 30K state. It is plausible that the observed σ 1 (ω) of δ = 0.032 sample comes from two different contributions; one comes from the T c = 16 K phase (LT c ) seen in δ = 0.024 sample and the other from the T c = 30 K phase (HT c ). Then, the two new features belong to HT c phase and have their origin in a different Wigner lattice ground state. We identify that the ∼ 46 cm −1 mode corresponds to the collective mode of this new Wigner lattice, ω GH .
(a) Real part of the conductivity σ 1 (ω) and (b) real part of the dielectric function ǫ 1 (ω) of δ = 0.032 sample. From the oscillator strengths of the Goldstone modes, one may determine the ratio of the carrier density in LT c phase (n L ) and HT c phase (n H ), n H /n L . At 30 K, we find n H /n L ∼ 2, which sug- gests that the carrier concentration of HT c phase is twice of that of the LT c phase when we assume the same m*. This implies that the HT c phase contains c(2x2) Wigner lattice, corresponding to p = 1/8. That is, the degree of commensuration has been decreased by a factor of two and the cor- responding Goldstone mode ω GH = 2ω GL . We suggest that the physical origin of the so-called p = 1/8 anomaly lies in the fact that at p = 1/8, the entire holes in the cuprate participate in form- ing the HT c phase Wigner lattice. However, we found n H /n L ∼ 1.2 at T = 300 K and ∼ 2.0 at 150 K suggesting that the HT c phase grows and builds up the long range order as T is lowered below 300 K. The ∼ 70 cm −1 peak in the HT c phase corresponds to the ∼ 90 cm −1 peak in the LT c phase. In this new lattice, the Coulomb band gap has increased slightly owing to the decrease in the lattice size of the Wigner lattice. Based on all the above observations, the normal state properties of cuprates are characterized as following:
(1) Away from half-filling, the new ground state is the 2D Wigner lattice order state and there exists a Coulomb band. Only a small fraction of carriers (∼ 0.42 % at 300 K and ∼ 0.97 % at 150 K) in the Coulomb band are participating in the coherent charge transport.
(2) Consequently, there exists two different types of gap; one is the single particle excita- tion gap at 2∆ ∼ 400 cm −1 and another is the Coulomb band gap on the order of 300 cm −1 . We believe this 2∆ is the gap seen in angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES), tunneling, and heat capacity measurements, which has been identified as the normal state pseudogap. In particular, since the best spectral resolution of ARPES is ∼ 20 meV ( ∼ 160 cm −1 ), 30 the lower energy excitations than 2∆ have not been re- solved in ARPES measurements. However, the observed states within the gap in other experi- ments have their origin in the density of states of the Coulomb bands.
(3) The Coulomb interaction between free car- riers in the Coulomb band is governed by the di-electric function arising from the presence of the pinned Goldstone mode through Here, ω G is the Goldstone mode, n W is the carrier density in the Wigner lattice and ǫ 1 (2∆) is the contribution from the single particle excitation.
Having found that the ground state of cuprates away from half-filling is the Wigner lattice state and the long range Coulomb interactions among the excess carriers in the Coulomb band are mas- sively screened by the presence of the Wigner lat- tice, any purely attractive interaction will induce the spin singlet pair formation which ultimately gives the superconducting order. The interaction energy between two electrons can be calculated by considering the following Coulomb interaction matrix element between two holes, H 12 which takes the form Since the holes in the Coulomb band also oscil- lates in phase with the Wigner lattice at ω = ω G and 1/ǫ 1 ( q → 0, ω) ≈ 1 -ω 2 0 /( ω 2 G -ω 2 + ω 2 0 ) in the long wavelength limit with ω 2 0 ≡ 4πn W e 2 /m * , one immediately finds the range of ω where V = H 12 is attractive as ω G < ω < ω 2 0 + ω 2 G . Here we have ignored the contribution from the single particle excitation and the damping of ω G . No- tice that this interaction is not retarded. There- fore, the free carriers in the Coulomb band al- ready form pairs once the long range order of the Wigner lattice develops for temperatures be- low T ∼ ω 0 ∼ 215 K. Only when the pho- ton energy greater than ω 0 (or T > ∼ 215 K), these preformed pairs dissociates via the Coulomb repulsion. In fact, vortex-like excitations in La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 systems at T as high as 150 K have been observed in the measurements of the Nernst effect. How does the superconducting order set in at T = T c ? There are evidences supporting that the phase stiffness of the superconducting order pa- rameter Ψ ∼ ∆e iφ plays a crucial role in high T c cuprates. Even though the pairing of the holes is achieved, the superconducting order will be ob- tained only after the long-range order in phase has been established. In conventional BCS su- perconductors, because of the phase stiffness en- ergy is much greater than the pair binding energy, the transition to the normal state is achieved by breaking the pair at T ≥ T c and the supercon- ducting transition and pairing take place at the same temperature.
In the original BCS theory, the derivation of the Meissner effect from the reduced BCS Hamil- tonian is not gauge invariant. From considera- tion of gauge invariance, Bogoliubov pointed out that there exist collective excited states of quasi-particle pairs, which can be excited only by the longitudinal current associated with the longi- tudinal component of the vector potential. There- fore, once the superconducting order has been es- tablished in ordinary BCS superconductors, the phase collective mode is present due to the broken gauge symmetry and the presence of such collec- tive states is essential for the gauge invariance in the long wavelength limit (q → 0).
Nambu found that the charge density cor- relation in the ground state is given by X(q, ω) ≈ n F q 2 /m e (ω 2 -n F q 2 / N(0) ) where n F = free electron density and N(0) = density of states. In the presence of the Coulomb interaction be- tween electrons, the dispersion relation for the collective excitations can be determined from the secular equation, 1 -V(q)X(q, ω) = 0 with bare Coulomb interaction V(q) = 4πe 2 /q 2 . This sec- ular equation gives ω φ 2 ∼ 4πn F e 2 /m e in q → 0 limit which is the plasma frequency of the elec- tron gas. This collective mode is known as the Bogoliubov-Anderson mode. This mode shifts to the plasma frequency makes the observation of the phase collective mode impossible. However, for the case of the Wigner lattice ground state, we propose that one must consider the screened Coulomb interaction in the Wigner lattice ground state as instead. This modification leads to the phase col- lective mode solution ω φ 2 ≈ ω G 2 / (1 + γ) in q → 0 limit with γ ≡ n W m e / n F m * for the elec- trons pairs in the Wigner lattice with ǫ 1 (ω) ≈ 1 + 4πn W e 2 / m * (ω 2 G -ω 2 ). This implies that the phase collective mode ω φ occurs when the pairs of electrons in 2D Wigner lattice undergo the Kosterlitz-Thouless transition at T = T c .
The temperature dependence of the oscilla- tor strength of the Goldstone modes and the Coulomb bands of δ = 0.024 and δ = 0.032 sam- ples, plotted in and respectively, are consistent with this picture. Two main re- markable changes are clearly seen; one is a rela- tively abrupt increase in the oscillator strength at ∼ 200 K, common to all the peaks and the other is a sharp jump in the strength of the Goldstone modes, ω GL and ω GH , at their respective super- conducting T c , one at 16 K and the other at 30 K. The increase in the oscillator strength of the collective modes at 200 K, indicates that the long- range order of the Wigner lattice starts to develop as evidenced by the reduction in their dynamic mass. At the same time, the strength increase in the Coulomb band suggests that more carri- ers occupy the Coulomb band following the de- velopment of the long-range order of the Wigner lattice. The corresponding free-carrier oscillator strength changes from ∼ 0.42 % at 300 K to ∼ 0.97 % at 150 K and to ∼ 1.18 % at 30 K in δ = 0.024 sample indicates that all the available free carriers are now occupying the Coulomb band and participating in the charge transport at T below 200 K. However, we do not observe the change in the free carrier plasma frequency because of the increasing static dielectric constant with de- creasing T. In δ = 0.032 sample, the free carrier strength is ∼ 0.44 % of the total carrier at 300 K and ∼ 0.71 % at 30 K. At the same time, as demonstrated above, at the crossover tempera- ture (T 0 ∼ 200 K) of the long-range order of the Wigner lattice, the free carriers in the Coulomb band start to form pairs. Subtle changes in the dρ/dT vs. T curves of both δ = 0.024 and δ = 0.032 samples at ∼ 200K has already been pointed out (see ). The resistivity de- creases faster and faster upon cooling below 200 K. Therefore, we have normal state pairs of holes formed at 200 K in our cuprate system. It is interesting to note that 200 K is exactly the tem- perature when mobile excess oxygen is considered to be frozen in.
We propose that the abrupt increase of the os- cillator strength of the Goldstone mode at T c is
Oscillator strength of (a) the Goldstone mode and (b) the Coulomb band of δ = 0.024 sample versus temperature plot.
resulted from the development of the phase collec- tive mode at T = T c under γ ≪ 1 condition (m * ≫ m e and n W > n F ), which gives ω φ ∼ ω G . The abrupt increase of the oscillator strength of ω GL mode at 16 K and ω GH mode at 30 K confirms the development of the phase collective mode of the superconducting order as the phase coherence develops at T c . Below T c , the phase of the super- conducting order parameter propagates as a col- lective mode. From the data, T c ∼ 16 K is mea- sured withhω GL ≈ 23 cm −1 and T c ∼ 30 K with hω GH ≈ 46 cm −1 . Therefore the superconducting T c can be predicted by measuring the Goldstone mode frequency via k B T c ≈ 0.5hω G . In fact, the phase collective mode and the Goldtone mode (or the hint of their presence) have been observed in a number of cuprate systems. 36−47 Specifically, we believe that the mode observed at ∼ 80 cm −1 in the underdoped Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ (Bi2212) (T c = 67 K) by Timusk et al. is the phase collective mode associated with the pinned Goldstone mode at ∼ 93 cm −1 with γ ∼ 2.8. Also, in their far-
Oscillator strengths of the two Gold- stone modes, one for T c = 16 K (LT c phase) and the other for T c = 30 K (HT c phase), and the corresponding oscillator strength of the Coulomb bands of δ = 0.032 sample. Each oscillator strength was calculated from the real part of the conductivity by fitting with a symmetric Gaus- sian function. (See the text for details.)
infrared study of Tl 2 Ba 2 CuO 6+δ , Timusk et al. reported an observation of a peak at 70 cm −1 be- low T c = 88 K which accompanies a satellite peak at ∼ 120 cm −1 . This 70 cm −1 mode is the phase collective mode with γ ∼ 2.0. The large γ implies the reduction in the dynamic mass of the Wigner lattice compensated by the increase in n F , free carrier density. Since the oscillator strength of the single particle excitation may be approximated as S 2∆ ∼ πne 2 (1-n W m e /nm * )/2m e with n = n W + n F , the reduction in the dynamic mass of the lat- tice diminishes the oscillator strength as actually seen in their in-plane conductivities.
In summary, focusing on the special hole concentration p c = 1/16, we have studied the charge dynamics of Sr-and O-co-doped La 1.985 Sr 0.015 CuO 4+δ with δ = 0.024 ( p = 0.063 per Cu) and δ = 0.032 ( p = 0.07). We observed the Goldtone mode of p(4x4) Wigner lattice cor- responding to p c = 1/16 for p = 0.063 sample and the Goldstone mode associated with c(2x2) Wigner lattice (p c = 1/8) in addition to the con- tributions of the p(4x4) lattice for p = 0.07 sam- ple. We found that the presence of 2D Wigner lattice and the pinned Goldstone mode is essen- tial for the cuprate physics and superconductiv- ity. We propose that all the high T c physics are based on the existence of these peculiar 2D elec- tron lattices which are realized by carrier doping into an antiferromagnetic background.