Transport, magnetic, thermodynamic and optical properties in Ti-doped Sr 2 RuO 4
We report on electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility and magnetization, on heat capacity and optical experiments in single crystals of Sr2Ru1−xTixO4. Samples with x = 0.1 and 0.2 reveal purely semiconducting resistivity behavior along c and the charge transport is close to localization within the ab-plane. A strong anisotropy in the magnetic susceptibility appears at temperatures below 100 K. Moreover magnetic ordering in c-direction with a moment of order 0.01 µB/f.u. occurs at low temperatures. On doping the low-temperature linear term of the heat capacity becomes significantly reduced and probably is dominated by spin fluctuations. Finally, the optical conductivity reveals the anisotropic character of the dc resistance, with the in-plane conductance roughly following a Drude-type behavior and an insulating response along c.
PACS numbers: 74.70.-b, 74.62.Dh, 75.30.Cr, 75.50.Cc
After the first synthesis and characterization of Sr 2 RuO 4 (Ref. 1) the system gained considerable inter- est after reports of superconductivity below T ≈ 1 K by Maeno et al. . The extremely strong suppression of su- perconductivity on non-magnetic impurities 3,4 gave first hints on unconventional superconductivity. That triplet pairing might be favored in Sr 2 RuO 4 was pointed out in early discussions . And indeed, at present there exists sound experimental evidence that the supercon- ducting order parameter is of p-wave symmetry: NMR Knight shift 8 , muon spin rotation 9 and small angle scat- tering from the flux lattice 10 support the idea that the su- perconducting state breaks time-reversal symmetry, not compatible with either s-wave or d-wave states. Fur- thermore, power-law dependencies of the heat capacity, C ∝ T 2 (Ref. , and of the spin-lattice relaxation rate, 1/T 1 ∝ T 3 (Ref. , are fingerprints of unconven- tional superconductivity.
In analogy to He, one is tempted to assume that p- wave pairing is mediated via ferromagnetic (FM) spin fluctuations. Indeed, related compounds are dominated by FM interactions: SrRuO 3 becomes ferromagnetic be- low 160 K (Ref. and Sr 3 Ru 2 O 7 orders ferromagnet- ically at 100 K under hydrostatic pressure . However, quite astonishingly there is not much experimental ev- idence for ferromagnetic spin fluctuations in the pure compound. Incommensurate Fermi-surface nesting and antiferromagnetic (AFM) spin fluctuations have been de- tected by inelastic neutron scattering . In addition, strongly anisotropic spin fluctuations have been observed in O-NMR experiments with significant AFM char- acter. However, similar NMR results by Imai et al. were interpreted to result from orbital dependent ferro- magnetic correlations. The fact that the presence of FM and AFM spin fluctuations yields a strong competition between d-and p-wave superconductivity 20 or that spin- triplet superconductivity may even arise from AFM spin fluctuations , has been pointed out theoretically. Dop- ing experiments, aiming to induce long-range magnetic order seem to be important to unravel the question of the importance of FM vs AFM spin fluctuations in Sr 2 RuO 4.
Strontium-ruthenate is almost isostructural to the high-T c parent compound La 2 CuO 4 . The superconduc- tivity is carried by the RuO 2 layers within strongly hy- bridized oxygen p and ruthenium d states. As has been pointed out, superconductivity in Sr 2 RuO 4 is extremely sensitive to defect states and it is clear that substituting Ru 4+ (4d 4 ) by nonmagnetic Ti 4+ (3d 0 ) will suppress su- perconductivity. However it seems interesting to check the closeness of the pure system to a magnetically or- dered ground state and the nature of the magnetism that can be induced by doping. We recall that Ca 2 RuO 4 is an AFM insulator 22 while Sr 2 IrO 4 is a weakly ferromagnetic insulator . On substituting Ru for Ir, Ru exhibits its full local S = 1 moment up to a critical concentration, beyond which the local moment disappears 23 . Polycrys- talline samples of Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 with 0 < x < 1 have been synthesized by Oswald et al. and their reduc- tion behavior and room temperature resistivity have been studied. With increasing Ti content the samples were found to show a higher resistivity while the tendency to be reduced decreases.
While this manuscript was in preparation we became aware of similar experiments by Minakata and Maeno 26 who investigated the electrical resistivity and the mag- netic susceptibility for Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 for Ti concentra- tions 0 < x < 0.25. These authors found local moment formation exhibiting strong Ising anisotropy. A mag- netic moment of 0.5 µ B per Ti was calculated and the magnetic order has been characterized as spin-glass like.
Here we present measurements of the electrical resistiv- ity, the magnetic susceptibility, the heat capacity and the optical conductivity of single crystalline material doped with 10 % and 20 % Ti. Our results reveal a strong mag- netic and electronic anisotropy of the doped compounds. On increasing Ti concentration the resistivity increases and the Sommerfeld coefficient significantly decreases. In addition we find at low temperatures magnetic ordering is induced, whose nature is not fully understood.
Single crystals of Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 were grown by the floating zone melting technique in a CSI FZ-T-10000-H furnace. The polycrystalline starting materials were synthesized by conventional solid state reactions from SrCO 3 , RuO 2 and TiO 2 . To take into account the evap- oration of some RuO 2 during the crystal growth, a 10 % excess of ruthenium oxide was used. Rods of the poly- crystalline compounds with approximately 7 mm diam- eter and 100 mm length were pressed and sintered at 1350 • C for 24 h. For the crystal growth experiments power lamps of 1500 W each were used. The growth was performed in flowing air (1 l/h) with a growth rate of 5 mm/h. The seed-and feed-rods were counter rotated at a speed of 35 rpm. The resulting boules consisted of a large number of crystals. We found that these crys- tals can easily be separated by keeping the boules in air for a few days or by putting them in water for several hours. The single crystalline samples examined in this work were platelets with typical dimensions of 1-3 mm in a or b direction and well below 1 mm in c direction.
For a structural characterization, small pieces of the single crystals were powdered and were investigated by x-ray diffractometry. The Ti-doped samples reveal the same body-centered tetragonal unit cell and space group (I4/mmm) as the pure compounds. The lattice con- stants are listed in Tab. II and are in good agreement with earlier published values 2,26 . On increasing x, the in-plane lattice constants slightly increase while c reveals a slight decrease. However, a uncertainty in the Ti con-centration of ±3 % can not be ruled out.
TABLE I: Lattice constants for Sr2Ru1−xTixO4 at room tem- perature for x = 0.1 and 0.2. Ti concentration lattice constants inÅ x a, b c 0 3.8704(1) 12.7435(1) 0.1 3.8744(1) 12.7163(1) 0.2 3.8775(1) 12.7008(2)
The two principal components ρ ab and ρ c of the elec- trical resistivity tensor were measured using the Mont- gomery method 27 for temperatures 0.3 K < T < 300 K. The specific heat was investigated with non-commercial setups employing relaxational methods 28 at low temper- atures (T < 4 K) as well as quasi adiabatic and ac meth- ods at elevated temperatures. The magnetic properties were measured employing a superconducting quantum in- terference device (Quantum Design MPMS) in a tem- perature range 1.8 K < T < 400 K and in fields up to 50 kOe.
For the measurements of the optical reflectivity we used two Fourier-transform IR-spectrometers with a full bandwidth of 50 to 8000 cm −1 (Bruker IF113v) and 500 to 33000 cm −1 (Bruker IFS 66v/S) together with an Oxford Opitstat cryostat. The polarization dependent reflectivity at room temperature was investigated using a Bruker IRscope II microscope, which offers the possibil- ity to investigate small fractions of the sample surface in a range well below 0.1 mm 2 . All IR-measurements were carried out on cleaved (not polished) single crystals.
The interlayer resistivity, ρ c , and the in-plane resistivity, ρ ab , were measured for temperatures 0.3 K < T < 300 K. As an example shows the re- sults for Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 (solid lines) compared to the pure compound (dashed lines) 2 . The anisotropy ratio ρ c /ρ ab increases monotonically as a function of tempera- ture from 160 at T = 300 K to 850 at T = 0.3 K, which are similar to the ratios of pure Sr 2 RuO 4 . At room tem- perature the in-plane resistivity (left scale) is enhanced by a factor of 2.5 when compared to the pure compound. On decreasing temperature ρ ab decreases, passes through a minimum and exhibits a semiconducting characteristic for T < 40 K. This minimum could signal the onset of localization of charge carriers within ab-plane, Kondo- type scattering of charge carriers on localized moments or a partial gapping of the Fermi surface due to the for- mation of a spin-density wave. We will see later that at 5 K the optical conductivity reveals a metallic Drude- type of behavior. In addition we carefully analyzed the resistivity upturn for x = 0.2 and T < 50 K in terms of a Kondo-like increase or hopping conductivity of localized charge carriers. Both models do not provide a reason- able description of the low-temperature upturn. Guided by these facts we prefer to interpret ρ(T ) for low temper- atures by the onset of short-range magnetic order. The interlayer resistivity (right scale) reveals a semiconduct- ing temperature variation for all temperatures investi- gated. For T > 100 K it is enhanced by a factor of 2 when compared to the undoped compound, but ρ c never enters a metallic regime, which is observed for x = 0 at low temperatures.
Temperature dependence of the in-plane resis- tivity ρ ab (left scale) and interplane ρc (right scale) in Sr2Ru0.8Ti0.2O4 (solid lines) compared to the undoped com- pound (dashed lines) 29 .
As a representative result shows the suscep- tibility for Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 as measured for an exter- nal dc field of 10 kOe. For T > 100 K we find an al- most isotropic Pauli-spin susceptibility of approximately 10 −3 emu/mol, very similar to the results obtained in undoped Sr 2 RuO 4 (Ref. . This behavior demon- strates that at elevated temperatures Ti 4+ (3d 0 ) replaces Ru 4+ (4d 4 ) resulting in Fermi-liquid (FL) behavior with- out localized moments. From the temperature depen- dence of the resistivity ) it seems clear that the FL has quasi two-dimensional (2D) character as expected from the crystallographic structure. However, below 100 K a Curie-Weiss like behavior evolves and concomi- tantly a strong magnetic anisotropy appears, with the c- axis susceptibility χ c strongly enhanced compared to the in-plane susceptibility χ ab . This is also true for x = 0.1. The results look similar to those reported by Minakata and Maeno . An apparent Curie-Weiss (CW) law for T < 150 K is followed by a nearly temperature indepen- dent isotropic Pauli-like behavior at elevated tempera- tures.
Temperature dependence of the dc susceptibility in Sr2Ru0.8Ti0.2O4 measured with an applied field of 10 kOe parallel to the c-axis (χc circles) and within the ab-plane (χ ab triangles). The inset shows χ ab (T ) and χc(T ) in a semi- logarithmic plot. We attempted to fit χ(T ) using the sum of a temper- ature independent Pauli spin susceptibility χ Pauli and a CW-contribution At elevated temperatures the Pauli spin susceptibility contribution is enlarged compared to the contribution of the localized moments. Therefore no clear prediction is possible if either the localized moments are still existing but hard to detect or the localized moments disappear. The best fit results are indicated as solid lines in the inset of , which shows χ c and χ ab vs T on a semi- logarithmic plot to demonstrate the quality of the fit.
The corresponding values for the effective paramagnetic moment µ ef f , the CW-temperature Θ, and the Pauli- contribution χ Pauli are given in Tab. II. Certainly the fit of Eq. 1 to χ(T ) is not convincing at high temperatures. This is due to the fact that for T > 100 K χ(T ) slightly increases on increasing temperature. It is this behav- ior which led Neumeier et al. to add a term which is linear in T . It is worth to mention that the data can be well fitted in the complete range up to room temperature employing this additional linear term χ cor T without hav- ing significant influence on the results for the parameters χ Pauli , µ ef f , and Θ. An alternative interpretation for the deviation from Pauli behavior at elevated temperatures rests on the as- sumption that for T > 100 K Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 behaves like a 2D antiferromagnet with a large exchange con- stant. In these systems the exchange corresponds to a maximum in the susceptibility which then would be ex- pected at T > 400 K and thereby the increasing suscepti- bility with increasing temperature can be well described.
TABLE II: Parameters as determined by the fits Eq. 1 to the magnetic susceptibility of Sr2Ru1−xTixO4. Similar observations have been reported for low-doped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 (Ref. 32).
A parameterisation of the data using Eq. 1 gives strong AFM correlations within the ab-plane (Θ ≈ −100 K) and an almost pure Curie behavior along c (Θ ≈ 0 K), in- dicating that the local moments are almost decoupled perpendicular to the c-axis. Taking this model seriously Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 has to be characterized as 2D magnet with a strong in-plane coupling.
Magnetization vs temperature for Sr2Ru1−xTixO4 for x = 0.1 (right panel) and x = 0.2 (left panel) for an external field of 10 kOe with H c and H a, b. FC and ZFC cycles are shown. For the c-direction the values of the paramagnetic moment µ ef f ≈ 0.5 µ B /f.u. are larger than the values found by Minakata and Maeno 26 . The paramagnetic mo- ments for the ab-plane are enhanced compared to the c-axis. Thus the in-plane magnetic properties of the Ti- doped compounds seem to reflect the properties of pure Sr 2 RuO 4, where values of µ ef f ≈ 1 µ B and Θ ≈ −150 K were reported 31 .
displays the temperature dependence of the magnetization for lower temperatures for both Ti con- centrations. A clear splitting of the field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC) magnetization occurs close to T m = 15 K for H c. Only minor effects show up for the in-plane magnetization which might result from a slight misalignment of the sample. T m is in agreement with the phase diagram published by Minakata and Maeno 26 , which shows a saturation of T m for Ti concentration x > 0.12. The fact that for x = 0.1 and 0.2 the char- acteristic temperatures T m are almost the same could in- dicate slight deviations of the effective Ti concentration from the nominal composition. One is tempted to assume spin-glass like ordering of statistically substituted local 3d 1 states embedded in a Fermi-liquid of the band states. However, the FC and ZFC cycles were performed at relatively high fields of 10 kOe. At such high fields spin-glass effects often are suppressed . The FC and ZFC splitting can also in- dicate the formation of FM clusters or even true long- range ferromagnetism were the FC and ZFC splitting result from domain-wall effects in strongly anisotropic materials. Having the time dependence of magnetiza- tion in mind, which has been observed by Minakata and Maeno , it seems most plausible to assume short-range FM correlations only. We also would like to stress that magnetization for fields within the ab-plane is not af- fected at all and for low temperatures the zero-field curve with H c is well below M with H a, b. So the observed magnetic transition is due to a coupling of the moments along c only.
Magnetization vs applied field for Sr2Ru0.8Ti0.2O4 at T = 13 K (upper panel) and T = 5 K (lower panel). Magne- tization within the ab-plane (M ab triangles) and c-direction (Mc circles) are shown. The dashed line is a mirror image of the measured M ab data. shows the magnetization vs an external magnetic field below the magnetic ordering temperature (lower frame: T = 5 K, upper frame: T = 13 K). At both tem- peratures the in-plane magnetization M ab behaves like a purely paramagnetic compound (or an AFM well below a spin-flop field). However, with the applied field along c a clear FM hysteresis evolves. The coercitive fields rapidly increase towards lower temperatures. At 5 K the maxi- mum applied field of 50 kOe is already much too small to establish a complete alignment of the spins. The ordered moment is rather low, and of the order of 0.01 µ B /f.u.
Heat capacity C/T vs T in Sr2Ru1−xTixO4 for x = 0.1 (triangles) and x = 0.2 (circles) at zero external field. The inset shows the temperature dependence of C/T for ex- ternal magnetic fields up to 100 kOe. All solid lines are drawn to guide the eye.
shows the low-temperature heat capac- ity C for Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 for x = 0.1 and 0.2, plot- ted as C/T vs T . With increasing x the low- temperature plateau, which so far has been interpreted as a strongly enhanced Sommerfeld coefficient γ be- comes suppressed. γ is 40 mJ mol −1 K −2 in the pure compound and becomes reduced to values of approximately 27 mJ mol −1 K −2 (23 mJ mol −1 K −2 ) for x = 0.1 (0.2). A hyperfine term appears at low tem- peratures. We have calculated the hyperfine contribu- tions to the heat capacity resulting from 87 Sr, 99 Ru and 101 Ru assuming an average magnetic field and Zeeman splitting. We can fit the low-temperature upturn as- suming a local field of approximately 850 kOe. The lo- cal field seems very strong but still could be reasonable, e.g. in La 0.8 Sr 0.2 MnO 3 local fields about 390 kOe were detected . But these strong internal fields can be only explained by strong FM correlations and probably point towards short-range FM order at least. The same fitting procedure for increasing external fields yields increasing internal fields and for H = 100 kOe we found an inter- nal field of approximately 1250 kOe. The inset in shows the Schottky-like increase towards low tempera- tures as a function of an external magnetic field. Fields significantly higher than 50 kOe are necessary to enhance the hyperfine term. This observation is compatible with the extremely high saturation magnetization which is indicated in .
Heat capacity C/T vs T for Sr2Ru0.8Ti0.2O4in zero external field (circles) and for fields of 140 kOe (crosses). The inset shows the same data as C/T vs T 2 . The solid line is an extrapolation of the lattice contribution towards. shows C/T vs T for Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 for tem- peratures 0.1 K < T < 30 K, in zero external field (cir- cles) and in a magnetic field of 140 kOe (crosses). C/T smoothly increases with no anomaly, specifically not close to 15 K where the anomaly in the out-of-plane magne- tization has been detected. For temperatures T > 5 K, C/T reveals no field dependence up to 140 kOe. In spin- glasses a cusp would be expected at T ≈ 1.3 T g , which in our case should occur close to 20 K. At the onset of long- range magnetic order an anomaly at T m = 15 K should show up. Neither anomaly can be detected in . The fact that a heat capacity anomaly is missing favors an in- terpretation in terms of cluster ferromagnetism or spin- glass freezing. The inset shows C/T vs T 2 and analyzing the heat capacity for 15 K < T < 25 K a Sommerfeld co- efficient of the order of 15 mJ mol −1 K −2 (solid line) can be determined. Close to 15 K additional contributions to the heat capacity show up, which most probably are magnetic in origin. We would like to mention that a sim- ilar analysis could be performed using the published data for Sr 2 RuO 4 (Ref. and would result in a much lower Sommerfeld coefficient. Based on our results we suggest that C/T at low temperatures is due to spin fluctuations even in the pure compound.
We have investigated the reflectivity R of Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 in the range of wavenumbers λ −1 from 50 to 33000 cm −1 . Due to the sample geometry, reflectivity measurements with E c could only be preformed using an IR microscope, which operates in the MIR range (700 cm −1 < λ −1 < 7000 cm −1 ) only.
The E-direction and frequency dependence of the reflectivity at MIR frequencies for the ac-direction of Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 is shown in . The most striking result is the extreme anisotropy of the charge dynam- ics which is nicely documented. The reflectivity reveals a typical insulating behavior in c-direction (ϕ ≈ 110 • , 300 • ) with nearly constant R ≈ 0.16. In ab-direction (ϕ ≈ 20 • , 210 • ) the reflectivity is much higher (R ≈ 0.78 at 700 cm −1 ) and decreases with increasing wavenumber.
MIR reflectivity vs wavenumber and direction of E within the ac -plane for Sr2Ru0.8Ti0.2O4. shows the in-plane reflectivity in a broad fre- quency range and the out-of-plane MIR reflectivity for x = 0.2 (solid lines). The MIR reflectivity for x = 0.1 (dotted lines) is also shown. The in-plane reflectivity of Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 decreases with increasing temperature in a Drude-like fashion, similar to observations in pure Sr 2 RuO 4 (Ref. . The out-of-plane reflectivity resem- bles the data of the pure compound, being quite different from the in-plane R. It is nearly frequency-independent at 1500 cm −1 < λ −1 < 7000 cm −1 and shows no Drude- like behavior in the measured frequency range. Due to the sample size for x = 0.1 (dotted lines) only the MIR reflectivity could be measured. R is enhanced in-and out-of-plane compared to x = 0.2, but still is smaller than the values of the undoped compound . This can be in- terpreted as a reduction of free charge carriers with in- creasing Ti-doping.
In order to investigate the optical conductivity, a Kramers-Kronig analysis of the reflectivity was carried out for x = 0.2 at T = 5 K and T = 300 K. For the low frequency extrapolation the Hagen-Rubens formula has been assumed. The real part of the optical conductivity σ 1 (ω) is shown for T = 5 K (dashed line) and T = 300 K (solid line) in the inset of . The peak-like struc- tures below 1000 cm −1 results from weak reminders of the phonon peaks and from multiple scattering events of the light passing the cryostat windows. Turning first to the room temperature spectra, both the reflectivity and optical conductivity for Sr 2 Ru 0.8 Ti 0.2 O 4 are very similar to those observed in the related cuprates La 2−y Sr y CuO 4 (Ref. . In the cuprates the optical spectra for y = 0.06 and y = 0.1 are very close in the absolute values and shape to what is observed in the ruthenates under in- vestigation. The slight non-Drude response towards low frequencies, namely a bump that is observed close to 2000 cm −1 (see inset in is also a characteristic feature of many low-doped cuprates. This bump could be disorder induced and probably is a characteristic fea- ture for metals close to localization. The fact that the conductivity spectrum for x = 0.2 at room temperature is close to the spectra observed in La 1.9 Sr 0.1 CuO 4 is a further hint for the extremely low charge carrier concen- tration of the titanium-doped ruthenates.
In-plane and out-of-plane reflectivity for x = 0.2 (solid lines) and x = 0.1 (dotted lines) at T = 300 K. In- set: Real part of optical conductivity for Sr2Ru0.8Ti0.2O4 at T = 5 K (dashed line), T = 300 K (solid line) and a Drude fit for T = 5 K (dashed-dotted line). To compare the effective number of charge carriers N ef f in the ab-plane with the pure Sr 2 RuO 4 we calcu- lated the spectral weight for the 20 % Ti-doped sample up to 12000 cm −1 (≈ 1.5 eV). N ef f is given by where m 0 is the free-electron mass, e is the elementary charge and N is the number of Ru and Ti atoms per unit volume. We find N 300K ef f (per f.u.) = 0.38 at room temperature, which is clearly reduced when compared to N 290K ef f = 0.53 as observed in the pure compound . On the other hand, if N is taken as the number of Ru atoms per unit volume, we get a value of N 300K ef f (Ru) = 0.48 which is close to that of pure Sr 2 RuO 4 . At 5 K the effective number of electrons is only slightly reduced to N 5K ef f (per f.u.) = 0.36, however the dc conductivity at 5 K is clearly enhanced compared to 300 K. A shift of the spectral weight towards high frequencies often is observed in highly correlated electron systems. It also is clear that at 5 K the optical conductivity is close to a Drude-like behavior which contradicts the observation in the dc re- sistivity where localization effects were detected at low temperatures.
We fitted the real part of conductivity with a standard Drude-model in order to estimate the plasma frequency ω p and the scattering rate γ using where ε 0 is the dielectric constant of vacuum. At T = 5 K Eq. 3 provides a good fit to the data (dashed-dotted line in the inset of ). We find a plasma frequency ω 5K p = 20947 cm −1 and a scattering rate γ 5K = 4958 cm −1 .
At room temperature σ 1 (ω) looks rather similar, with the scattering rate γ 300K = 6465 cm −1 and the plasma frequency ω 300K p = 22197 cm −1 being slightly increased. σ 5K 1 (ω → 0) = 1475 Ω −1 cm −1 and σ 300K 1 (ω → 0) = 1270 Ω −1 cm −1 are in rough argeement with the dc conductivity shown in .
In this work we investigated single crystals of Sr 2 Ru 1−x Ti x O 4 with concentrations of x = 0.1 and 0.2 which were grown using the floating zone melting tech- nique. The crystals show an anisotropic behavior of dc resistivity and infrared reflectivity similar to that ob- served in undoped Sr 2 RuO 4 , but the temperature de- pendence of dc resistivity is rather different. The resis- tivity along c reveals a semiconducting behavior down to the lowest temperatures and the resistivity within the RuO 2 -planes signals the onset of localization effects close to 50 K. From the magnetic susceptibility and the magnetization we conclude that the crystals exhibit an anisotropic Curie-Weiss behavior at temperatures be- low 100 K. Moreover magnetic ordering along c with a moment of order 0.01 µ B /f.u. evolves at T < 15 K. At the moment it is unclear if long-range or short- range magnetism is established below T m . However it is clear that strong AFM exchange dominates the in-plane properties while FM coupling between the planes estab-lishes FM correlations along c. Antiferromagnetic or-der within the planes corresponds to spin arrangements observed in La 2 CuO 4 and La 2 NiO 4 and also were de- tected in Ca 2 RuO 4 (Ref. . We also speculate that even at elevated temperatures the Ti-doped Ruthenates behave like two-dimensional magnets similar to what has been observed in Sr-doped La 2 CuO 4 (Ref. ). High- temperature susceptibility measurements, even in the pure compound are highly warranted. From the heat capacity experiments we find that the Sommerfeld co- efficient significantly becomes suppressed on Ti-doping reaching values of 27 mJ mol −1 K −2 for x = 0.1 and 23 mJ mol −1 K −2 for x = 0.2, which still are extremely high values for a bad metal close to localization with a low density of charge carriers. Carrying out the heat ca- pacity in a broader temperature range, we find that just below the magnetic ordering transition the susceptibility becomes considerably enhanced and at low temperatures possibly soft magnetic excitations dominate the heat ca- pacity. However, at the magnetic ordering temperature, as observed in the susceptibility experiments, no heat ca- pacity anomalies indicative for long-range magnetic order were detected. This can be interpreted as an additional evidence that only short-range order exists below T m . It is interesting to note that the heat capacity for T > 1 K remains unchanged in fields as high as 140 kOe.
The reflectivity shows an anisotropic behavior of the charge dynamics similar to the parent compound. The in-and out-of-plane reflectivities decrease in the com- plete frequency range investigated with increasing Ti- doping. The frequency dependence of the reflectivity and the conductivity are similar to the low doped regime of La 2−y Sr y CuO 4 (y ≈ 0.06). We fit the in-plane σ 1 (ω) using a standard Drude-model, which describes the ex- perimental results well at T = 5 K. At this temperature, the plasma frequency is approximately 2.3 eV, and the scattering rate is of the order of 0.6 eV. Both quantities increase on increasing temperature. We also tried to cal- culate the optical weight of the Drude response and found an effective number of charge carriers of 0.38 (per f.u. at 300 K) assuming that both, Ru and Ti atoms contribute to the band states. This value is significantly reduced when compared to the number of charge carriers in the pure system (N ef f = 0.53) as determined by Katsufuji et al. .