Non-linear Temperature Dependence of Resistivity in Single Crystalline Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 
We measured electrical resistivity, specific heat and magnetic susceptibility of single crystals of highly conductive oxide Ag5Pb2O6, which has a layered structure containing a Kagome lattice. Both the out-of-plane and in-plane resistivity show T 2 dependence in an unusually wide range of temperatures up to room temperature. This behavior cannot be accounted for either by electron correlation or by electron-phonon scattering with high frequency optic phonons. In addition, a phase transition with a large diamagnetic signal was found in the ac susceptibility, which strongly suggests the existence of a superconducting phase below 48 mK. 
PACS numbers: 72.15.Qm, 72.80.Ga, 74.70.Dd 
One of the central issues of solid state physics in recent decades has been the physics of electron-electron (e-e) correlation. As a hallmark of the Fermi liquid state formed by strong electron correlations, the resistivity exhibits T 2 dependence at low temperatures, as in many heavy-fermion systems . T 2 dependence of resistivity also appears in quasi-2-dimensional Fermi liquid of oxides such as Sr 2 RuO 4 2 , which is strongly suggested as a spin-triplet superconductor with T c = 1.5 K. Interestingly, a layered compound MgB 2 , which shows superconductivity at T c = 39 K 3 , also exhibits T 2 dependence in the resistivity up to 240 K 4,5 . The ρ ∝ T 2 law in MgB 2 is attributed not to the e-e correlation, but to the strong electron-phonon (e-ph) coupling between a quasi-2-dimensional conduction band and an optic phonon mode in the boron honeycomb layer 6 . 
As another example of a layered system which exhibits T 2 resistivity, but in a much wider temperature range up to room temperature, we report here the physical properties of a layered oxide Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . This material was first reported by A. Byström and L. Evers in 1950 7 . As shown in , the crystal structure consists of an alternating stacking of Kagome layers of silver and honeycomblike networks of PbO 6 octahedra, which is connected by one-dimensional chains of silver penetrating the layers. As a whole, Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 forms a hexagonal P31m structure with lattice parameters a = b = 5.9324(3)Å and c = 6.4105(4)Å 8 . 
Far before the report of the ρ ∝ T 2 law, it was suggested by B. Dickens that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 shows metallic conductivity 9 , and it was confirmed by M. Jansen et al. in polycrystalline samples 8 . Band calculation by T. D. Brennan et al. revealed that its Fermi level is located near the center of the band and that its conductivity is attributed to one free electron from one formula unit, de-localized to all over the silver substructure; thus its valence formula is represented as . The T 2 dependence of the resistivity up to room temperature for the out-of-plane re-0 1 2 3 4 5 6 FIG. 1: Crystal structure of Ag5Pb2O6. sistivity of single crystals was recently reported by Shibata et al. at meetings of the Physical Society of Japan 11 . This dependence is rather unusual, because resistivity of almost all metals show T -linear dependence around room temperature due to the dominance of e-ph scattering. It was Jansen et al. who first succeeded in controlled synthesis of polycrystalline Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 by high oxygen pressure method 8 . Recent report by H. Abe et al. on a new method to obtain single crystals 12 , made it possible to perform more precise experiments. Nevertheless, so far no article on experiments with single crystals has been published, although there are several articles on closely related materials, such as Bi and In substitution to the Pb site 13 , Cu substitution to the Pb site 14 and Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 with defects 15 . We note that there are also articles on powder samples by D. Djurek et al. reporting several strange properties , which have not been reproduced by other groups to the best of our knowledge. 
We present here the first report on physical properties of single crystalline Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . We synthesized the single crystals and measured resistivity, specific heat and magnetic susceptibility. In resistivity, we succeeded not only in reproducing the T 2 dependence of the out-of-plane resistivity, but also in finding the same dependence of the in-plane resistivity for the first time. We will discuss the possible origin of the unusual T 2 resistivity. What is more, we found a large signal of diamagnetic phase transition around 48 mK, which implies that bulk superconducting phase exists in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . 
The single crystals of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 used in this study were grown by basically the same method as the one Shibata et al. reported . As starting materials, we used AgNO 3 (99.9999%) and Pb(NO 3 ) 2 (99.999%). We ground them in a mortar, and put the powder into thin Al 2 O 3 crusibles with a 10-mm inner diameter. The ratio of Ag and Pb is basically stoichiometric. The crusibles were heated in air to 80 • C and kept for 3 hours, then heated up to 300 • C in 8 hours and up to the reaction temperature at 394 • C in another 5 hours. We note here that one should cover the crusibles with larger crusibles or something in order to avoid pollution of the furnace, since melting AgNO 3 sometimes splashes out of the crusibles. The temperature was kept at this temperature for 48 hours, and the crusibles were furnace-cooled to room temperature . 
However, the crystals obtained with the above parameters do not have well-defined shapes as shown in (a) thus they are not suitable for resistivity measurements. We found that we can grow better-shaped crystals by choosing lower reaction temperatures. Furthermore, we also discovered that adding extra AgNO 3 promotes the growth, because AgNO 3 , which melts at 212 • C, apparently plays a role of self-flux. (b) shows the crystals grown with twice amount of AgNO 3 and with a reaction at 380 • C. Using this process, we obtained crystals in the shape of hexagonal sticks, which are shown in (c)(d). The long axis of the sticks are along the c axis. The largest size of crystals was approximately 1 mm in length and 0.5 mm in thickness. 
For characterization of the obtained crystals, we used powder X-ray diffractmetry with CuKα 1 radiation, which confirmed that these crystals were singlephased Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . Resistivity was measured using a standard four-probe method with dc or ac current. Specific heat was measured with a commercial calorimeter (Quantum Design, model PPMS), and dc susceptibility by a SQUID magnetometer (Quantum Design, model MPMS). AC susceptibility was measured by a mutual inductance method down to 38 mK using a 4 He-3 He dilution refrigerator. 
We note here about the lowest temperature of the resistivity measurement. We used an ultrasonic soldering 
Photos of single crystals of Ag5Pb2O6 taken with optical microscopes. The long axis of these crystals are along the c axis. (a) Single crystals in a crusible which are obtained with basic reaction parameters described in the text. (b) Single crystals at the bottom of a crusible when we mixed AgNO3 and Pb(NO3)2 with a ratio of Ag:Pb=5:1 and also chose a lower reaction temperature (380 • C). The crystals grew dispersed from each other and the shapes became better with the aid of self-flux AgNO3. In this case AgNO3 little remained since most of unreacted AgNO3 had been evaporated or resolved into Ag metal. (c) A group of single crystals removed from the crusible in photo (b). We obtained a lot of crystals with a perfectly hexagonal-stick shape by adding self-flux AgNO3. (d) A cross section of a typical single crystal (not the largest). This hexagonal plane is in the ab plane of Ag5Pb2O6. method to attach the leads to the crystals, because several conductive pastes (e.g. silver paste) we used all damaged the sample seriously. On the other hand, the solder we used (Cerasolzer #123, Senju Metal Industry) becomes superconducting below 3 K, which makes it impossible for us to measure the sample resistivity accurately below 3 K. We should also note that the accuracy of in-plane resistivity is less reliable than that of the out-ofplane resistivity. This is because we could not shape up the samples before attaching leads to the crystal. Thus the electric current did not flow uniformly and we could not determine ρ by the simple relation as ρ = R(S/l), where S is the cross section and l is the lead spacing. The results of ρ ab shown in is an estimation assuming uniform current flow. Nevertheless, the relative variation of ρ in temperature should be reliable. 
III. RESULTS shows the resistivity along the c axis (ρ c ) and in the ab plane (ρ ab ). Anisotropy of resistivity at 280 K is rather small and approximately 2, which is consistent with the results of the band calculation by Brennan et al. The residual resistivity for ρ c and ρ ab are 9.7 µΩcm and 1.5 µΩcm, respectively; this means residual resistivity ratio (RRR) are 35 for ρ c and 93 for ρ ab , which show that the quality of the samples was quite good. If we assume its temperature dependence as 
Temperature dependence of the out-of-plane (open squares) and the in-plane resistivity (open triangles) down to 3 K. Solid lines are the fitting with ρ(T ) = ρ0 + A ′ T p with p = 2.13 for ρc and p = 2.11 for ρ ab . Dashed lines are the fitting assuming the existence of a Einstein-like optic phonon mode. ρ(T ) = ρ 0 + A ′ T p , we obtained the exponent as p = 2.13 for ρ c and p = 2.11 for ρ ab from the fitting in all temperature range . For both direction, p is close to 2; thus if we approximate as ρ(T ) = ρ 0 + AT 2 , we obtained the coefficient of T 2 term A c = 3.78 × 10 −3 µΩcm/K 2 for ρ c (T ) and A ab = 1.6 × 10 −3 µΩcm/K 2 for ρ ab (T ). The measured specific heat is shown in . Since Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 does not contain any magnetic ions, we express C P in 1-mol formula unit, in other words, of 1-mol conduction electrons. In high temperature region, C P converges to a constant value, which agrees with Dulong-Petit's classical phonon specific heat, C cl = 3k B rN A = 324 J/K mol 19 , where r = 13 is the number of atoms in one formula unit. We also measured the specific heat in magnetic fields, but there was no difference between the data in 0 T and in 7 T. The inset is the C P /T -vs.-T 2 plot below 3.3 K. We obtained the electronic specific heat coefficient γ e = 3.42 mJ/K 2 mol and the Debye temperature Θ D = 186 K from this plot. 
Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 displays weak constant diamagnetism in 10 K < T < 350 K, (−2.07 ± 0.02) × 10 −4 emu/mol, from dc susceptibility measurement. Below 10 K, χ dc increases probably owing to paramagnetic impurities. To subtract the diamagnetic contribution from the ion cores, we used the values of the susceptibility of cores in the literature 20 ; we estimated the total contribution from the cores as −2.44 × 10 −4 emu/mol. When we subtracted this value from the experimental value, we obtained (+3.7 ± 0.2) × 10 −5 emu/mol. This is the Pauli susceptibility of conduction electrons because there are no magnetic ions in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . 
In the ac susceptibility measurement, we found a very large signal around 45 mK as shown in 
The signal was reproducible in different samples, in different suscep-Specific heat of Ag5Pb2O6 down to 0.35 K. These figures contain the results of several different samples. Inset: CP /T plotted against T 2 below 3.3 K. Solid line is the fitting CP (T )/T = γe + βpT 2 with γe = 3.42 mJ/K 2 mol and βp = 3.91 mJ/K 4 mol. tibility cells and in different ac magnetic field amplitudes and frequencies. We also measured ac susceptibility of a bulk pure Al with approximately the same volume as the measured Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 using the same cell, and found that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 yields as large a diamagnetic signal as that of the superconducting transition of Al. Moreover, this transition disappears under a few Oe magnetic field, and Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 does not contain any magnetic ions which may cause a diamagnetic transition. Thus this signal strongly implies the existence of a bulk superconducting phase of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . The inset of is the phase diagram of this new phase. "H c (T )" was determined from the peaks of imaginary part χ ′′ ac by sweeping magnetic field at each fixed temperature. We note that values of H in the inset of is shifted because exact zero point of our magnet changed by a few Oe due to the residual magnetic field. Thus we swept magnetic field from +10 Oe to −10 Oe and determined exact zero point from the symmetry of the χ ac data. "H c " is well fitted by a parabolic law for superconductor: where H c0 = 3.0 Oe and T c0 = 48 mK obtained by fitting. This variation also supports the evidence of superconductivity. 
Now we discuss the origin of the T 2 dependence of resistivity. One possibility is e-e interaction. Resistivity of materials in which strong e-e correlation exists shows T 2 dependence only at temperature much lower than room temperature, because the characteristic temperature of many-body Fermi liquid formation is low and also the T 2 -behavior requires the dominance of the e-e scattering over the e-ph scattering. If the ρ ∝ T 2 law up to room temperature of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 comes from the e-e correlation, the e-e correlation must be so large as to dominate over 
AC magnetic susceptibility below 0.1 K, measured with an ac magnetic field of amplitude 2.3 × 10 −2 Oe and frequency 887 Hz. A very large diamagnetic phase transition signal was found below 45 mK, which suggests the existence of a superconducting (SC) phase. Inset: Phase diagram of Ag5Pb2O6 below 50 mK. Closed squares are "Hc" determined from the peaks of imaginary part χ ′′ ac . Dashed line shows the classical parabolic law of superconductivity: Hc(T ) = Hc0[1 − (T /Tc0) 2 ]. the e-ph scattering even at room temperature. But it seems impossible to expect strong e-e interaction from the discussions below. First, the electronic specific heat coefficient of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is comparable to those of normal metals and 1 ∼ 3 orders of magnitude smaller than those of strongly-correlated electron systems. Moreover, neither the Wilson ratio nor the Kadowaki-Woods (K-W) ratio shows evidence of strong e-e correlations. The Wilson ratio, which is given by (π 2 k 2 B /3µ 2 B )(χ Pauli /γ e ), is expected to increase from unity to 2 as e-e interaction increases from 0 to ∞ 21 . In Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 , the Wilson ratio is 0.79, close to unity, implying that the e-e interaction is weak. Of course we should note that the value of χ Pauli may not be very accurate because the subtracted core contribution is much larger than χ Pauli . The K-W ratio is defined as A/γ 2 e and becomes a universal value a 0 = 1.0 × 10 −5 µΩcm(K mol/mJ) 2 in most stronglycorrelated systems . The K-W ratio of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is 32.3a 0 for ρ c and approximately 14a 0 for ρ ab ; both are much larger than a 0 . These deviation imply that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 cannot be classified into strongly-correlated electron systems and that the T 2 dependence of ρ is not due to e-e interaction. 
Another possible origin is the e-ph scattering. Basically, resistivity governed by the e-ph interaction is T -linear above Θ D /5 (≈ 20 ∼ 100 K, in most metals). But there are some materials of which resistivity shows non-linear T dependence at relatively high temperature because of the e-ph scattering by high energy optic phonons. For example, MgB 2 shows ρ ∝ T 2 behavior in T c < T 240 K 4,5 , and ReO 3 exhibits an unusual curvature in the resistivity in 120 K T 220 K 23 . When analyzing non-linear T dependence of resistivity in these materials, it is a common approach to assume the optic phonons as Einstein-like . In this method, the Boltzmann equation is a starting point: where x = ω/2k B T , α 2 F (ω) is the Eliashberg function, ω p is the plasma frequency of conduction electrons. We assume that we can separate the Eliashberg function into the Debye term and the Einstein term: where Ω D and Ω E are the Debye frequency and the frequency of Einstein phonons, respectively, and λ D and λ E are the e-ph coupling constant of Debye phonons and of Einstein phonons, respectively. Now we can substitute this Eliashberg function into Eq. 1, and fit it with the experimental data. When we used k B Ω D / , k B Ω E / , λ D /ω 2 p and λ E /ω 2 p as fitting parameters, we obtained k B Ω D / = 290 K and k B Ω E / = 1200 K from the fitting with ρ c data, and k B Ω D / = 280 K and k B Ω E / = 1100 K from ρ ab . The results of the fittings are shown in with dashed lines. But the existence of such a high frequency Einstein-like phonon is doubtful. This is because specific heat shown in converges to Dulong-Petit's value around 350 K, implying that all phonon modes are "freely" excited at this temperature and thus there seems to be no more phonon mode with energy much larger than 350 K 25 . For comparison, the specific heat of MgB 2 , in which the optic phonon mode with a wavenumber of 620 cm −1 (890 K in energy) plays important roles, is indeed not at all saturated even at 300 K 26 . 
If we assume that the novel phase below 48 mK is a phonon-mediated superconducting phase, we can estimate the e-ph coupling constant λ from McMillan's relation : When we assumed the psudopotential as µ * = 0.1 and used Θ D = 186 K, we obtained λ = 0.288, which is comparable to those of W (λ = 0.28, T c = 12 mK) or Be (λ = 0.23, T c = 26 mK) . Such a small λ may be another evidence that strong e-ph interaction does not exist in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . The unusual ρ ∝ T 2 behavior up to room temperature thus can be attributed to neither e-e interaction nor e-ph interaction including the optic phonons. We note here that a one-dimensional chain organic compound TTF-TCNQ exhibits T 2.33 dependence of resistivity in 60 K < T < 300 K 28 , attributable to the librational phonon mode in the chain . This scenario is not applicable to Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 because of the rigidness of the lattice against twisting motion of the silver chain. Nevertheless, a unique phonon mode may exist also in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 which gives rise to the T 2 dependence. Thus a detailed investigation into the phonon modes in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 and into their strength of coupling with conduction electrons may elucidate the T 2 dependence. 
In conclusion, we synthesized single crystals of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 and measured their resistivity, specific heat and magnetic susceptibility. The resistivity exhibits unusual T 2 dependence up to room temperature both along the c axis and in the ab plane. This behavior cannot be explained by e-e interaction. It seems also impossible to explain the T 2 dependence from the e-ph scattering by optic phonons. Thus there should be other scattering mechanisms in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . Moreover, a phase transition with a large diamagnetic signal was found below 48 mK and below 3 Oe. This new phase seems to be a bulk superconducting phase in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . 
