Temperature dependence of the magnetic penetration depth in B 1−x K x BiO 3 superconductor
Temperature dependence of the magnetic penetration depth, λ(T), was measured in the Meissner state in single crystals B1−xKxBiO3 (x=0.37) using tunnel diode resonator technique. At low temperatures, 0.013 ≤ T /Tc ≤ 0.4, λ(T) is exponentially flat, which provides a strong evidence for conventional s-wave BCS behavior. Numerical analysis of the data rules out the possibility of a gap with nodes.
Magnetic penetration depth is an effective tool to study electromagnetic properties of superconductors. At low temperatures, its temperature dependence is directly re- lated to the density of low energy quasiparticles, which in turn can be related to the anisotropy of the supercon- ducting energy gap on the Fermi surface. For investiga- tion of the low lying excitations and thus the anisotropy of the energy gap, the analysis is considerably less am- biguous if measurements are performed on high quality single crystal and temperatures well below T c /3. In this paper we report magnetic penetration depth measure- ments on single crystals B 0.63 K 0.37 BiO 3 (T c ≈ 31 K) down to 0.4 K. The investigation of mechanisms of super- conductivity in B 1−x K x BiO 3 (BKBO) system has been one of the important subjects in studies of high T c su- perconductivity in oxide materials. The significance of BKBO lies in observations that some of its supercon- ducting properties are consistent with the conventional s-wave isotropic superconductivity, but others are resem- bling high-T c cuprates. In particular, substantial iso- tope effect , strong phonon contribution from the neutron scattering measurements , and a supercon- ducting gap with 2∆ 0 /T c =3.5±0.3 from the tunnelling and optical experiments indicate significant role of electron-phonon interactions in mechanism of su- perconductivity of BKBO. However the low density of states at the Fermi level with T c as high as 30K and insulator-superconductor transition by doping are similar to high-T c cuprates. However, in contrast to high T c cuprates which have two dimensional CuO 2 planes, BKBO has simple three dimensional cubic perovskite structure.
Single crystal of B 1−x K x BiO 3 (x=0.37) was grown by the electro-chemical method reported elsewhere . DC magnetization was measured by using Quantum Design MPMS SQUID magnetometer. Zero-field cooled and field cooled temperature scans taken in external field of 10 Oe are shown in
Superconducting transition temperature of the sample is T c ≈ 31K and the curves show regular superconducting screening with the Meiss- ner expulsion of about 20%, which provides an indication of relatively low pinning. Magnetization loops confirm
Temperature dependence of magnetic moment in B-K-Bi-O single crystal in zero-field cooled and field cooled ex- periment in an external applied field of 10 Oe. low pinning behavior. Penetration depth measurements were carried out us- ing a 13 MHz tunnel diode LC resonator mounted on a He 3 cryostat. The sample was placed on the sap- phire stage with temperature control from 0.35 to 40K. During the measurements the sample is exposed to the small ac field H ac ≃ 20 mOe much less than the first critical field, H c1 ≈ 750 Oe at 5 K. The relative resonance frequency shift, ∆f = f (T ) − f (T min ), is re- lated to the change of the magnetic penetration depth via ∆f = −G∆λ, where G is geometrical factor that depends upon the sample shape and volume as well as the coil ge- ometry . Low temperature behavior of magnetic pen- etration depth is shown in the . The frequency shift in was normalized by the value ∆f 0 ≈ 3500 Hz, which represents the total frequency shift cooling from normal to superconducting state. The solid line in shows the fit to a low temperature BCS expression for an s-wave material,
Low temperature penetration depth variation in B1−xKxBiO3 (x=0.37) single crystal. The solid line shows the low temperature exponential fit to the weak-coupling BCS ex- pression. Dash-dotted line represents low temperature d -wave behavior. See text for details. Here ∆ 0 is the value of the energy gap at zero tem- perature . The fitting range was chosen up to 0.33T c to ensure the validity of the low temperature expansion. 2∆ 0 /T c = 3.53 corresponds to standard weak coupling BCS value. The dash-dotted line shows the low temper- ature behavior of the magnetic penetration depth pre- dicted for a clean d-wave superconductor . The value of 2∆ 0 /T c for d-wave case was again chosen to be 3.53 in accordance with results of tunnelling and optical experi- ments.
Clearly the isotropic s-wave BCS curve provides best description of the low temperature penetration depth variation indicating the isotropic nature of superconduct- ing gap for BKBO. Some apparent noise in the data is because in the temperature interval of interest, the pen- etration depth is exponentially flat with no systematic temperature dependence.