Substitution for Cu in the electron-doped infinite-layer superconductor Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 , Ni reduces T c much faster than Zn 
We report the effect of substitution for Cu on the Tc of the electron-doped infinite-layer superconductors Sr0.9La0.1Cu1−xRxO2 for R = Zn and Ni. We found that Tc was nearly constant until x ∼ 0.03 for R = Zn while the superconductivity was nearly suppressed for x ∼ 0.02 with dTc/dx ≥ 20 K/% for R = Ni. This behavior is very similar to that of conventional superconductors. These findings are discussed in terms of the superconducting gap symmetry in the cuprate superconductors, including another electron-doped superconductor, (Nd,Ce)2CuO4−y. surements, we are thankful to Mr. Dong Sik Kim at the 
Impurity substitution at the Cu site in high-T c cuprates has been considered to be a test probe for the mechanism of high-temperature superconductivity and the symmetry of the superconducting order parameter . It has also shed light on the recent striking issue of a normal-state pseudo-gap. The most important observation was that the non-magnetic Zn ion suppressed T c somewhat more than magnetic ions such as Ni for all kinds of hole-doped cuprates such as (La,Sr) 2 CuO 4 , [3,6-8] YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ , ] YBa 2 Cu 4 O 8 , and Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8 . The T c reduction rate for Zn substitution was dT c /dx ∼ 10 K/% and was higher for underdoped compounds than optimally or overdoped ones. This behavior of T c is strongly contrasted with that of conventional superconductors, where the reduction of T c is stronger for magnetic ion impurities, but nearly absent for nonmagnetic ion impurities. This difference led to the theoretical formulation of an unconventional pairing mechanism and a symmetry of the order parameter for high-temperature superconductor . 
Substitution at the Cu site in ordinary high-T c cuprates with a charge reservoir block is generally not immune to structural distortion and/or charge carrier transfer between the charge reservoir block and the conducting CuO 2 planes, which could affect T c dramatically. Especially, one must be very cautious about the oxygen content when comparing the amounts of T c reduction directly. Another complexity is due to the existence of several substitutable sites inside a unit-cell. 
Electron-doped infinite-layer superconductors (Sr +2 1−x Ln +3 x )CuO 2 (Ln = La, Sm, Nd, Gd, etc.) have several incomparable merits for studying the effect of substitution for Cu on T c . Without a charge reservoir block, it has only the back-bone structure common to all high-T c cuprates, CuO 2 planes separated only by a metallic spacer layer. The structure is robust, and oxygen is very stoichiometric and stable: buckling of the CuO 2 plane, O interstitials and O vacancies were reported to be nearly absent. The T c has been found to be very robust against modifications of the structure and changes in the magnetic moment due to doping various lanthanide ions at the Sr sites. Thus, the substitution for Cu in the infinite-layer superconductors has the least possibility of changing T c via secondary routes, and observations should reveal a more intrinsic change in the T c of cuprate superconductors. However, difficulties in synthesizing high-quality sample has prohibited intense work on these infinite-layer superconductors. Moreover, no work on the Cu-substitution effect has been reported.
Recently, we succeeded in synthesizing high-quality (Sr 0.9 La 0.1 )CuO 2 . Here, we report the effect of substitution for Cu on the T c of the electron-doped infinitelayer superconductors Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 1−x R x O 2 where R = Zn and Ni. We found that T c was nearly constant until x ∼ 0.03 for R = Zn while the superconductivity was nearly suppressed for x ∼ 0.02 with dT c /dx ≥ 20 K/% for Ni. This feature is similar to those observed in conventional superconductors. 
Starting materials of La 2 O 3 , SrCO 3 , CuO, and ZnO (NiO) with a nominal composition were calcined at 920 ∼ 945 • C for 36 hours with several intermittent grindings. A pelletized precursor sandwiched between two Ti oxygen-getter slabs was put in a Au or Pt capsule. The capsule, together with an insulating wall and a graphitesleeve heater, was closely packed inside a high-pressure cell made of pyrophillite. Details of the sintering under high pressure is found elsewhere. The masses of the homogenous samples obtained in one batch were larger than 200 mg. The low-field magnetization was measured in the zero-field-cooled state by using a SQUID magnetometer (MPMSXL, Quantum Design) at 10 ∼ 20 Oe. The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) was measured using a RIGAKU X-ray diffractometer. Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) using an electron probe microanalyzer and a field emission scanning electron microscope (JSM-6330F, JEOL) were also used. 
(a) shows the X-ray powder diffraction patterns of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 1−x Zn x O 2 , x = 0, 0.01, 0.03, and Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 1−x Ni x O 2 , x = 0.01 and 0.02. The intensity of each pattern was normalized to the intensity of the (101) peak and offset vertically for clear comparison. These XRD patterns show that a nearly single phase with an infinite-layer structure was formed. Peaks corresponding to Zn oxide, Ni oxide, and La oxide could not be identified within the resolution. The smaller peaks at 2θ ∼ 33.5 • and 37.5 • were also found to exist for unsubstituted pristine Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 sample with nearly the same diamagnetic signal; thus they do not correspond to Zn oxide or Ni oxide. 
The lattice constants are a = b = 3.928 (3.950)Å and c = 3.433 (3.410)Å for insulating SrCuO 2 (superconducting Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 ). The expansion of the a-axis lattice constant is known to be due to the transfer of electron carriers to the CuO 2 planes, and the shrinking of the c-axis lattice constant is simply due to the ionic size effect. The lattice constants from the XRD patterns in 
for Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 0.98 Ni 0.02 O 2 and Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 0.97 Zn 0.03 O 2 are a = b = 3.943Å and c = 3.417Å and a = b = 3.950Å and c = 3.408Å, respectively. The error bars are about 0.003Å. We also examined whether Zn was uniformly distributed within the samples of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 1−x Zn x O 2 with x = 0.03. The microscopic composition of the samples was measured over tens of grains, each with a smaller detecting area of 3 × 3 µm 2 . The average diameter of a grain was about 10 µm, and the Zn concentration in the grains was 3±1%. The average Zn concentration was also closer to the nominal value. Since the entire heating process was done inside a Au capsule, a net loss of metallic ions is not likely to occur for the high-pressure synthesis technique. For other samples, the resolution of the EDS was rather insufficient to determine the stoichiometry. 
We measured the low-field magnetization and calculated the magnetic susceptibility, 4πχ(T ), to determine the effect of substitution at the Cu site on T c . (b) shows magnetic susceptibility, 4πχ(T ), curves for the above samples. The data for x = 0 were from a previous result. For Ni substitution, both T c and the superconducting volume fraction drastically decrease, and superconductivity nearly vanishes for a 2% substitution with an average T c reduction rate of dT c /dx ≥ 20 K/%. This behavior was confirmed for several samples with x = 0.02. However, for Zn substitution, the change in T c was less than about 2 K until x ∼ 0.03 where the superconducting volume fraction became less than about half that of the pristine sample. For samples with x > ∼ 0.03, growth of singl-phase samples was very difficult. Though we did not confirm the uniformness of Ni inside the sample due to the resolution limit of EDS, the result for dT c /dx should be a lower bound on the real value. The nearly total suppression of superconductivity in Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 0.98 Ni 0.02 O 2 seems not to result from the lattice effect because the lattice constants remain much closer to those for superconducting Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 than those for insulating SrCuO 2 . This means that the reduction of the electron carrier density in the CuO 2 plane does not play a dominant role in killing the superconductivity. shows the reduction rate, dT c /dx, for Cusite substitution in high-T c cuprates: Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8 , (La,Sr) 2 CuO 4 , [3,6-8] YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ , [3,6,9-13] (Nd,Ce) 2 CuO 4 , [7,25,31] and (Sr 0.9 ,La 0.1 )CuO 2 . The open and the filled symbols represent the cases of Ni and Zn substitution, respectively. As noted previously, the T c reduction rate is higher for Zn substitution in 2-dimensional hole-doped cuprate superconductors, which occupies the majority of high-T c cuprates.
However, this trend was first reversed for an electron-doped superconductor such as (Nd,Ce) 2 CuO 4−y , which is just one step toward a conventional superconductor in terms of charge carrier type. Our finding for (Sr 0.9 ,La 0.1 )CuO 2 seems to be the next step. Two kinds of representative n-type cuprates show similar behaviors for the substitution effect on T c , Ni killing the superconductivity faster than Zn. However the difference is that the substitution effect in (Sr 0.9 ,La 0.1 )CuO 2 is much closer to those in conventional superconductors with respect to the exact value of the T c reduction rate dT c /dx. Impurity substitution effects in hole-doped cuprates and electron-doped cuprates have been discussed in terms of the superconducting gap symmetry, d-wave and swave, respectively . Phase-sensitive Josephson tunneling or the presence of a half flux quantum at the center of the tricrystal ring could be a direct test of d-wave superconductivity, but would require high-quality thin films, which have not been feasible for infinite-layer superconductors due to difficulties in film growth. In addition, the pairing symmetry of the (Nd,Ce) 2 CuO 4 compound remains to be controversial. Many experimental observations indicate that (Sr 0.9 ,La 0.1 )CuO 2 has properties which are the most similar to those of conventional superconductors. This compound was reported to have more 3-dimensional superconductivity with the c-axis coherence length, even near zero temperature, being larger than the c-axis lat-tice constant. The undoped antiferromagnetic insulator Ca 0.85 Sr 0.15 CuO 2 has been reported to have more 3-dimensional magnetic coupling and that material has been reported to have a stronger 3-dimensional character than other parent insulators of cuprate superconductors, such as YBa 2 Cu 3 O 6 , La 2 CuO 4 , and Sr 2 CuO 2 Cl 2 . For example, an estimate of the ratio of the out-of-plane to the in-plane coupling constants for Ca 0.85 Sr 0.15 CuO 2 was two to three orders of magnitude larger than the corresponding values for YBa 2 Cu 3 O 6 and La 2 CuO 4 . A very recent observation of scanning tunneling spectra in (Sr 0.9 ,La 0.1 )CuO 2 support the existence of an s-wave gap with a superconducting gap ∆ ∼ 13 meV, as well as the absence of pseudogap. IV. SUMMARY We found that in electron-doped infinite-layer superconductors Sr 0.9 La 0.1 Cu 1−x R x O 2 , substitution of the nonmagnetic Zn ion in the CuO 2 plane hardly suppress T c (dT c /dx ≤ 0.5 K/% for x ≤ 0.03) while substitution of the magnetic Ni ion kills the superconductivity at only x ∼ 0.02 (dT c /dx ≥ 20 K/%). This behavior is similar to that observed for conventional superconductors. This behavior is also consistent with many recent observations, such as the existence of s-wave gap, the stronger 3-dimensionality in superconducting and antiferromagnetic properties. 
