Thermodynamic properties of excess-oxygen-doped La 2 CuO 4.11 near a simultaneous transition to superconductivity and long-range magnetic order
We have measured the specific heat and magnetization versus temperature in a single crystal sample of superconducting La2CuO4.11 and in a sample of the same material after removing the excess oxygen, in magnetic fields up to 15 T. Using the deoxygenated sample to subtract the phonon contribution, we find a broad peak in the specific heat, centered at 50 K. This excess specific heat is attributed to fluctuations of the Cu spins possibly enhanced by an interplay with the charge degrees of freedom, and appears to be independent of magnetic field, up to 15 T. Near the superconducting transition Tc(H=0)= 43 K, we find a sharp feature that is strongly suppressed when the magnetic field is applied parallel to the crystallographic c-axis. A model for 3D vortex fluctuations is used to scale magnetization measured at several magnetic fields. When the magnetic field is applied perpendicular to the c-axis, the only observed effect is a slight shift in the superconducting transition temperature.
The high-temperature cuprate superconductors are created by doping of Mott insulating materials, such as La 2 CuO 4 , which show quasi-2D spin-1 2 antiferromag- netic (AFM) order. Neutron scattering experiments on La 2 CuO 4 have shown instantaneous spin correlations in the copper-oxygen planes that persist to very high tem- perature because of the very strong in-plane exchange constant J. Although the 3D AFM order, resulting from weak interplane coupling, is destroyed by doping of La 2 CuO 4, the in-plane dynamic correlations survive throughout the underdoped and superconducting portion of the phase diagram. Therefore, the interplay between the spin degrees of freedom and superconductivity is an important part of the current research on high-T c super- conductors.
Particulary interesting is the coexistence of static in- commensurate spin density wave (SDW) order with su- perconductivity in several cuprates (for recent reviews, see . Static SDW's have been observed first in La 2−x−y Nd y Sr x CuO 4 and later in La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 , for x near 1 8, and La 2 CuO 4+y . Oxygen-doped La 2 CuO 4+y is most interesting in this respect not only because it has the highest T c = 43 K of entire doped La 2 CuO 4 fam- ily of superconductors, but also because the transition to the superconductivity and the in-plane static long- range magnetic order coincide. According to neutron scattering and muon-spin rotation experiments, there is a well-defined phase transition to the magnetically- ordered state at T m = T c . This magnetic order is 2- dimensional with the out-of-plane correlation length of order 3 Cu-O planes. Above T m , in the paramagnetic phase, there is evidence for long-coherence-length, low- energy spin fluctuations. By applying a magnetic field, which suppresses the superconducting order parameter, the magnetic order parameter grows. This indicates that there is a competition between the magnetic order and superconductivity, in spite of the close proximity of T m and T c.
To learn more about the superconductivity and mag- netism, we have measured the specific heat, in fields up to 15 T, and the magnetization, in fields up to 7 T, for La 2 CuO 4.11. We have removed the excess oxygen from a piece of a similar oxygen-doped single crystal and have used its specific heat to estimate the phonon contribu- tion. Subtraction of the latter reveals a broad peak near 50 K in the specific heat, which is insensitive to magnetic field and which we associate with spin fluctuations, en- hanced by the involvement of charge degrees of freedom. In addition, there is narrow peak near the superconduct- ing transition. The height and width of the latter peak, as well as its suppression by the magnetic field, is consis- tent with results for a Sr-doped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4+y super- conductor of similar hole density. Analysis of the mag- netization indicates strong 3D vortex fluctuations when the field is applied parallel to the c-axis of the sample.
In the next section we discuss the experimental tech- niques (sec. II A) and the sample preparation and char- acterization (sec. II B). In sec. III we present the results for specific heat (sec. III A) and magnetization (sec III B) measurements. In sec IV we discuss the implication of our results, and a summary is presented in sec. V.
The specific heat measurements were made with a thin Silicon Nitride (SiN) membrane microcalorimeter in fields applied parallel and perpendicular to the c-axis by means of a superconducting magnet up to 15 T. The SiN membrane microcalorimeters consist in a Silicon frame of 11×11 mm 2 with a 5×5 mm 2 SiN membrane, 1 µm thick. On the front side of the membrane there are a platinum resistor that works as a heater, and three different thermometers (one platinum resistor for high temperatures and two NbSi composite resistors for low temperatures). On the back side of the membrane, a gold conduction layer is deposited in order to thermalize the thermometers and heater, and the sample is attached on it with a thermally conductive compound. These mi- crocalorimeters have very low heat capacity addenda, allowing measurements of small samples (in the sub- miligram range), thin films or small changes in specific heat of bulk samples when a small addenda is needed. Recent measurements have proved that in these devices neither the membrane thermoconductance nor the ad- denda change significantly with fields up to 8 T, whereas our measurements show no change up to 15 T. The film thermometers on the membrane were calibrated in tem- perature and magnetic field against a factory-calibrated Cernox thermometer. The method used to measure spe- cific heat is the thermal relaxation time technique.
Magnetization measurements were performed in a commercial 7 T Quantum Design SQUID magnetome- ter, using a scan length of 4 cm (longitudinal magneti- zation), with fields applied parallel and perpendicular to the c-axis.
Single crystals of La 2 CuO 4 have been grown by the travelling solvent floating zone technique and subse- quently oxidized in an electrochemical cell, as described previously. Thermogravimetric analysis gives an oxygen excess of 0.11. We study a 3.06 mg piece of a single crystal of La 2 CuO 4.11 of dimensions 0.6×0.6×1.4 mm 3 , where the c-axis is along the longer dimension. This is a small piece of the sample used in previous neutron scat- tering experiments. The structure of La 2 CuO 4 is shown in the inset A of Fig. The spin-1 2 Cu 2+ ions order antiferromagneti- cally within the CuO 2 planes in the undoped material
Magnetization vs. temperature at an applied field of 3 Oe. The onset of diamagnetic signal is at 43 K. The struc- ture in the curve at lower temperatures probably indicates a small amount of remaining stage-6 phase. Inset A: Schematic structure of La2CuO4, showing the spins of the copper ions. Inset B: Magnetic moment vs. magnetic field at low fields (for T=5 K); the line is the result of a linear fit of the data. Both magnetization measurements were done after zero-field cooling.
(as shown in the diagram). The c-axis is perpendicular to the Cu-O planes. In oxygen-doped La 2 CuO 4+y , the excess oxygen is intercalated between the Cu-O planes and forms a sine-density-wave, which is periodic along the c-axis. This behavior is called staging. Stage-n cor- responds to a period of n Cu-O layers. The sample stud- ied here is predominantly in the stage-4 phase, which has its superconducting transition at T c = 43 K. The onset of static long-range magnetic order coincides with the on- set of superconductivity. Note that T c = 43 K is higher than that of optimally-doped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 , which is possibly due to the absence of quenched disorder from a random distribution of Sr 2+ dopants. Previous neutron scattering experiments show no gap in the spin excita- tions in this sample. Our sample shows the onset of a diamagnetic signal at 43 K when measuring magnetization at an applied magnetic field of 3 Oe (see the main panel of Fig. ). The structure observed in the magnetization at around 32 K almost certainly comes from small inclusions of the stage-6 phase with T c = 32 K. We have estimated the superconducting volume at 5 K from the slope of the magnetic moment vs. field at low fields (inset B of Fig. ), corrected by a demagnetiza- tion factor of 3/2 for a sphere. The calculated volume is 0.45 mm 3 , close to the sample volume of 0.43 mm 3 , deduced from the sample mass. This indicates that the superconductivity is a bulk phenomenon and develops in the entire sample.
To create the deoxygenated sample we place another 0.5 mg piece of an oxygen-doped crystal in an Ar flow at
Panel A: Specific heat vs. Temperature at zero field for superconducting La2CuO4.11 and insulating La2CuO4. The arrow indicates the position of the SC transition in the first curve. Panel B: Specific heat divided by T above the background at fields of 0, 7 and 14 T applied parallel to the c-axis. The same background, linear in T, is subtracted from all 3 curves. The error bar shows the typical scattering of points, ±2 mJ/mol K 2 .
500 o C for 2 hours. This procedure eliminates the excess oxygen and results in undoped La 2 CuO 4 material. We have used this sample to subtract the phonon background from the specific heat measurements, as discussed below. We note that the specific heat of the two samples agree very well at low temperatures without any adjustment.
Fig. shows the specific heat data for the La 2 CuO 4.11 single crystal as well as for the deoxygenated crystal of La 2 CuO 4 , in zero field. The arrow indicates the anomaly at the superconducting transition for the former. In or- der to clarify the contribution from superconductivity, we have subtracted a background (C back ) linear in T be- tween 30 and 60 K from the original specific heat data. The measurements have been made at fields of 0, 7 and 14 T applied parallel to the c-axis, and in Fig. we plot the quantity (C-C back )/T as a function of tempera- ture. This is the method used perviously to elucidate the specific heat anomaly at the transition. The peak at 43 K at zero field, with full width at half-height of 5 K, corresponds to the onset of superconductivity. The
Same as Fig. 2B, with fields up to 15 T applied in plane. The curves are displaced for clarity, and straight lines are added as guides to the eye. The dashed line shows the shift of the SC transition with field.
height of the peak is 10 mJ/mole K 2 , which is only 2% of the total specific heat at 43 K. This peak height is con- sistent with other measurements of the specific heat in La 2 CuO 4.093 , 17 and in La 1.85 Sr 0.15 CuO 4 . When the field is applied parallel to the c-axis of the sample, the anomaly is suppressed, as demonstrated by the curves for 7 and 14 T. At these fields, the peak has broadened and there is no clear sign of an anomaly over the entire temperature range measured. In Fig. we show the specific heat data in fields applied perpendicular to the c-axis (in plane). We subtract, as before, a background linear in temperature between 30 and 60 K and divide by T. The curves are displaced for clarity. In this case the peak is present in all fields up to 15 T, with no change in height and a small shift towards lower temperatures with increasing fields (marked with a dashed line on the plot). The rate of change is 0.13 K/T.
Although the origin of the sharp peak at zero field in Fig. and in fields applied perpendicular to the c-axis in Fig. is clearly identified with the superconducting tran- sition, there is an extra contribution to the specific heat in the superconducting compound, evident from Fig. . The curve for the oxygenated sample departs from the deoxygenated one above 30 K. Subtracting the specific heat for the deoxygenated crystal, we obtain a plot of the excess of specific heat, shown in Fig. . The curves at the two fields match each other, except for the super- conducting peak in the zero-field curve (indicated with an arrow). The inset of Fig. shows the entropy associated with the excess specific heat obtained by numerical inte- gration. The entropy at 65 K is 0.93 J/mol K, roughly
Specific heat for La2CuO4.11 with that of the deoxy- genated sample subtracted, for zero field and for a 7 T field applied parallel to the c-axis. The superconducting transi- tion is indicated with an arrow. The inset shows the entropy associated with the excess specific heat. 20% of the entropy expected for one spin-1 2 per Cu ion (R ln (2S+1)= 5.76 J/mol K).
Magnetization measurements have been performed on the same single crystal used in the heat capacity studies for both orientations of the magnetic field. Fig. shows the data in fields applied parallel (panel A) and perpen- dicular (panel B) to the c-axis. In the latter orienta- tion, irreversible behavior is observed, and the zero field cooled (ZFC, lower curve) and field cooled (FC, upper curve) magnetization curves merge at the irreversibility temperature T irr , shown on the figure for H= 1 T. In the reversible region of the magnetization, curves at dif- ferent fields are indistinguishable within the scatter of the points. This behavior is consistent with the specific heat results, which show only a slight displacement of the superconducting transition temperature with field.
For the field applied parallel to the c-axis, panel A of Fig. shows the reversible region of the magnetiza- tion up to 7 T. Note that the scale of the magnetiza- tion axis is 10 times than that in panel B. We have ex- panded the region marked with a rectangle in Fig.
A clear crossing point is observed in curves up to 5 T (curves at 6 and 7 T are not plotted here). The char- acteristic temperature (T * = 42.5 K) and magnetization (M * = -0.023 emu/cm 3 ) of this crossing point are marked on the graph. The crossing point in the magnetization vs. temperature curves is a distinctive feature of vortex fluctuations. Magnetization versus temperature curves for H par- allel (panel A) and perpendicular (panel B) to the c-axis. FC indicates curves taken while field cooling and ZFC curves taken while zero-field cooling. Tirr is the irreversibility tem- perature (shown for H=1 T). The rectangle is expanded in Fig.
We first discuss the specific heat results. One of the features in the specific heat of our superconducting sam- ple La 2 CuO 4.11 is the absence of a clear magnetic contri- bution at the simultaneous ordering temperature of 42-43 K. Indeed, we identified a small anomaly due to the superconducting transition. However, we did not observe any anomaly associated with the simultaneous onset of the static incommensurate magnetic order neither in the absence nor in the presence of the applied field of up to 15 T. This could be due to one of the following reasons: a) the entropy recovered at the magnetic ordering tem- perature is quite small, as in the parent compound, 28 b) the entropy is significant but distributed over a broad temperature range. Therefore, we measured a deoxy- genated (insulating) sample of La 2 CuO 4 to obtain the phonon contribution to the specific heat.
The insulating sample has two contributions to the spe- cific heat at the low temperatures studied, one from the phonons and one from magnons. The magnon contri- bution (C m ) for undoped La 2 CuO 4 was estimated from linear spin-wave theory for a 2D square lattice antiferro-
Expansion of the rectangular region indicated in Fig. 5 (H c). The crossing point of these curves is a distinctive feature of vortex fluctuations. The characteristic temperature (T * ) and magnetization (M * ) are indicated. magnet to be 28 where k B is the Boltzmann constant. Taking J/k B = 1567 K, eq. (1) yields C m = 1.8 mJ/mol K at 40 K, a value that is four orders of magnitude less than the phonon contribution at that temperature (20 J/mol K), and well below the experimental resolution. We therefore can use the specific heat of the deoxygenated sample as a measure of the phonon contribution, leading to the plot of excess specific heat due to the doping shown in .
Doping La 2 CuO 4 with oxygen leads to three effects which might contribute to the excess specific heat: (i) changes in the vibrational spectrum caused by ex- cess oxygen; (ii) free carrier excitations; and (iii) changes in the spectrum of magnetic excitations. The staging of the interstitial oxygen is accompanied by a periodic re- versal in the direction of the tilt of the CuO 6 octahedra along the c-axis. This will likely cause a small change in the phonon spectrum. However, such a difference would give rise to a change in the specific heat that is mono- tonic with increasing temperature, rather than the broad peak we observe. The broad peak is reminiscent of the Schottky anomaly for a system with a finite number of excited states, such as a spin-1 2 moment in a magnetic field. From the temperature of the peak we infer that, were such two-level systems responsible for the excess specific heat, the energy splitting of the two levels would be ∼ 7 meV. We cannot exclude the possibility that the interstitial oxygens have a two-level systems associated with it, however, we think it is more likely that the excess specific heat is associated with a disordered component of the spin system, as discussed below.
The contribution to the specific heat from the free car-riers must be small. Indeed, above T c we use the BCS estimate γ=∆C/1.43 T c ≈ 6 mJ/mol K 2 , far less than that observed. In addition, as for any change in the phonon spectrum, free carriers are not expected to give a peak in the specific heat. We suggest, instead, that the excess specific heat shown in Fig. comes from a change in the spectrum of spin excitations resulting from the doping. The contribu- tion of the spins to the specific heat in the 2D S= 1 2 square lattice Heisenberg AFM (Quantum Heisenberg Antifer- romagnet QHA) become important at temperatures of order the in-plane exchange constant J. Monte-Carlo simulations of this model show that the heat capacity exhibits a broad peak at k B T ≃ 0.6 J . Since the excess specific heat reported here is observed at 50 K, as- cribing the excess specific heat to that of a QHA would imply that J is suppressed from ∼ 135 meV to ∼ 7 meV by doping. However, this conclusion contradicts results from neutron scattering. The instantaneous magnetic correlation length, measured by integrating over all the energies up to ∼ 100 meV is almost constant as a func- tion of temperature in the optimally-doped or slightly underdoped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 . 1 If J were in fact reduced by doping to 7 meV, then the correlation length would rise dramatically at low temperatures. Although the in- stantaneous correlation length has not been measured in oxygen-doped La 2 CuO 4+y , its magnetic dynamics is very similar to slightly underdoped LSCO. Furthermore, we have measured the widths in q-space of the magnetic fluc- tuation peaks associated with the SDW order and find no increase in their width up to ∼ 9 meV. This allows us to place a lower bound on J in the superconductor of 60 meV. We conclude that the excess specific heat is not described by the QHA with reduced J.
Neutron scattering results show that the ordered mo- ment below the SDW transition increases dramatically with the application of a magnetic field. 9 However, the excess specific heat, aside from the small component re- sulting from superconductivity, does not depend on the applied field. This and the absence of any critical be- havior convince us that the observed anomaly cannot be attributed only to the fluctuations of the ordered mag- netic moment near the SDW phase transition. We would not expect such a contribution since the nearest-neighbor spin correlations are already established at much higher temperatures, and hence there would not be enough ex- cess entropy at 50 K to observe experimentally.
There is a connection between the excess specific heat and the frequency-dependent magnetic susceptibil- ity χ ′′ (ω) measured with neutron scattering around the (π, π) point for slightly underdoped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 . The latter shows a maximum as the energy transfer is lowered, at around 7 meV, before going to zero at lower energy. This maximum is most pronounced near the supercon- ducting transition temperature. This behavior shows that there is an enhancement of the (π, π) spin fluctua- tions at ∼ 7 meV in La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 of similar hole den- sity to the La 2 CuO 4.11 sample studied here. The suscep-tibility around (π, π) of La 2 CuO 4.11 does not show such a maximum, but rather is approximately constant at low energies. For the latter material χ ′′ (ω) is enhanced at low energies relative to that in La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 because of the magnons associated with the static long-range-ordered incommensurate SDW. However, muon measurements in- dicate that the local magnetic order is fully developed microscopically at only about 40% of the muon sites. The remaining 60% of the sample, which has a very small ordered moment, is likely to have spin excitations closely similar to those in La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 (x=0.14) and should exhibit the enhanced spin fluctuations at around 7 meV. We speculate, therefore, that the broad anomaly in the specific heat reflects the enhanced magnetic fluctuations coming from the disordered 2D spin-1 2 system. Naively, one expects the entropy associated with these fluctuations to be even smaller than the contribution from the moments that order below 42K. Consequently, the large enhancement of spin fluctuations observed in the experiments must the result of an interplay between charge and spin degrees of freedom. The relevant energy scale for the charge degrees of freedom is given by the su- perconducting transition temperature, T c = 43 K, close to the temperature at which the excess specific heat is observed.
We next discuss the behavior of the magnetiza- tion and specific heat near the superconducting tran- sition. Vortex fluctuations in high temperature super- conductors have been observed in Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8 , 19,20 YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ and La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 25,26 among oth- ers. Several theoretical studies, based on the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) free energy, explain the appearance of the crossing point T * where the magnetization M * is inde- pendent of the field. From the values of T * and M * we estimate the coherence length along the c-axis for the vortex fluctuations, using the expression in ref. where k B is the Boltzmann constant, Φ o is the flux quan- tum, l c the coherence length for the fluctuations, and the constant A is set to 1. In our case, the coherence length we find, l c ≈125Å,is almost 20 times the distance be- tween planes (∼7Å), which suggests that the fluctua- tions in our system have 3D character. For comparison, the coherence length for La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 with a Sr content x=0.14 is l c ≈60Å, deducted from the data in ref. . This value is half the coherence length in our sample. Also we found that the penetration depth λ 0 =λ ab (T=0) is larger for our material that for the compound doped with Sr. We estimate the penetration depth for our sam- ple from magnetization vs. magnetic field curves 22 (that we measured separately but do not include in this paper)
Scaling of the magnetization data in the variables (3), for 3D (panel A) and 2D (panel B) vortex fluctuations. The scaling works for presumed 3D fluctuations up to 5 T. Inset: Function Tc(H) used in the 3D scaling. All the curves are ZFC. to be λ 0 ≈3800-4000Å. This value is in agreement with a previous estimation on powdered La 2 CuO 4+y (y≤0.13), which gives λ 0 ≈4200Å. For the compound doped with Sr (x=0.15), λ 0 ≈2000-2500Å. Several physical properties show scaling behavior when critical fluctuations dominate. In particular, magneti- zation vs. temperature curves taken at different fields are expected to collapse to a single function when the variables are plotted. Here the exponent s is 1 2 for 2D fluc- tuations and 2 3 for 3D behavior. The function T c (H), the transition temperature as a function of field, is chosen in order to optimize the scaling. Fig. shows the scaling of variables Eq. (3) for 3D (panel A) and 2D (panel B) vortex fluctuations, in fields up to 5 T. The differences between the curves for the 2D case are appreciable, and we are not able to find a T c (H) function that makes the different curves collapse. In con- trast, panel A shows 3D scaling, for which all the curves up to 5 T scale within experimental error. The inset in Fig. shows the function T c (H) used in the scaling. Curves at 6 and 7 T were not included in Fig. because they start deviating from the other curves, presumably due to a departure from the scaling behavior.
Phase diagram from the magnetization experiment. Open symbols represent irreversibility line, and solid symbols Hc2. Squares are for H⊥c and diamonds for H c.
Fig. indicates that our system shows 3D vortex fluc- tuations in fields applied parallel to the c-axis up to 5 T. In higher fields the fluctuations are still present but their dimensionality becomes obscure, possibly related to a 3D to 2D crossover at high fields, although this point re- quires more investigation.
As we mentioned earlier, such scaling of magnetization is very common to different high-T c cuprates, including Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8 , YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ and La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 . We also point out that the 3D nature of the flux lines serves as another confirmation of the doping homogeneity of our material. Despite the oxygen-density modulation associ- ated with staging, based on the results of neutron and NMR measurements we know that the degree of doping in the Cu-O layers is as homogeneous as in the best sam- ples of La 2−x Sr x CuO 4. The existence of 3D flux lines with correlation length of 20 Cu-O layers serves as an additional confirmation of this conclusion.
The disappearance of the specific heat peak at the su- perconducting transition with a magnetic field parallel to the c-axis has been universally observed in cuprate superconductors. Several mechanisms have been proposed to account for this effect, such as the pos- sible 2-dimensional nature of the superconducting phase transition in layered cuprates, effective one-dimensional character of the transition in the presence of the field because the quasiparticles are bound to the lowest Lan- dau level in the field, or finite size effects (see, for exam- ple, Ref. and references therein). All these effects are anisotropic and result in suppression of the transition by the field parallel to the c-axis.
For completeness, in Fig. we present the phase di- agram constructed from magnetization data. The irre- versibility line is taken from the merging of the ZFC and FC data, the H c2 line for H c is taken from the scaling (inset of Fig. ), and the H c2 line for H⊥c from the ex- trapolation of the reversible magnetization to zero. Note that we have found very similar values of H c2 (T )(H c) from the transport measurements on the same sample. 9
We have presented specific heat and magnetization measurements on a single crystal of La 2 CuO 4.11 , in mag- netic fields up to 15 T. A broad peak centered at 50 K is observed in the specific heat measurements when the specific heat of a deoxygenated sample is subtracted. We attribute this peak to fluctuations in the disordered spin system associated with the optimally doped and under- doped superconductors. The effect of these fluctuations is possibly enhanced by an interplay between the charge and spin degrees of freedom. At the superconducting transition, we find that a sharp specific heat peak as- sociated with the onset of the superconducting state is dramatically broadened, when the field was parallel to the c-axis. Our magnetization measurements show ev- idence of strong vortex fluctuations with a correlation length of 20 Cu-O planes. 3D scaling fits the data well with a quadratic H c2 curve up to 5 T.