Dimensionality of superconductivity in the infinite-layer high-temperature cuprate Sr 0.9 M 0.1 CuO 2 (M = La, Gd)
The high magnetic field phase diagram of the electron-doped infinite layer high-temperature superconducting (high-Tc) compound Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 was probed by means of penetration depth and magnetization measurements in pulsed fields to 60 T. An anisotropy ratio of 8 was detected for the upper critical fields with H parallel (H ab c2 ) and perpendicular (H c c2 ) to the CuO2 planes, with H ab c2 extrapolating to near the Pauli paramagnetic limit of 160 T. The longer superconducting coherence length than the lattice constant along the c-axis indicates that the orbital degrees of freedom of the pairing wavefunction are three dimensional. By contrast, low-field magnetization and specific heat measurements of Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2 indicate a coexistence of bulk s-wave superconductivity with large moment Gd paramagnetism close to the CuO2 planes, suggesting a strong confinement of the spin degrees of freedom of the Cooper pair to the CuO2 planes. The region between H ab c2 and the irreversibility line in the magnetization, H ab irr , is anomalously large for an electron-doped high-Tc cuprate, suggesting the existence of additional quantum fluctuations perhaps due to a competing spin-density wave order.
cuprate, superconductivity, infinite layer, competing order, upper critical field, Gd substitution
In the high-T c cuprate superconductors, anisotropy has been suggested to play an important role in the super- conducting pairing mechanism and the elevated T c in both experimental and theoretical work . It is surprising therefore to find superconductivity (SC) with T c = 43 K in the optimal electron-doped infinite-layer cuprates Sr 0.9 M 0.1 CuO 2 (M = La, Gd), which exhibit only a 16% difference between the a and c tetragonal lattice parameters. The structure of Sr 0.9 M 0.1 CuO 2 is the most basic among all high-T c cuprates, consisting entirely of CuO 2 sheets separated by rare-earth (RE) ions with tetragonal lattice parameters c = 3.41Å and a = 3.95Å.The recent success in producing high-quality polycrystalline samples of the infinite-layer cuprates with no observable impurity phases has en- gendered a renewed interest in these compounds. X-ray near-edge absorption spectroscopy indicate electron dop- ing, and bulk SC has been verified by powdered mag- netization (M ) measurements and specific heat (C) measurements (data presented later in this work). Sev- eral recent studies of these high purity polycrystalline samples suggest three-dimensional (3D) superconductiv- ity in Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 . Scanning tunnel spectroscopy (STS) measurements indicate an unconventional but isotropic s-wave superconducting gap with no pseudogap at zero field. The s-wave symmetry of the gap is also sup- ported by specific heat measurements and Cu-site substi- tution studies,although it may be contradicted by NMR measurements.Kim et al estimated the c-axis coherence length (ξ c ) from a Hao-Clem analysis of the reversible magnetization of grain-aligned poly- crystal, and found that ξ c exceeds the spacing between the CuO 2 planes, indicating 3D superconductivity. On the other hand, they also find significant anisotropy be-tween magnetic fields H ≤ 5 T oriented parallel and per- pendicular to the CuO 2 planes, with an anisotropy ratio γ = ξ c /ξ ab = H ab c2 /H c c2 = 9.3, which is larger than γ = 5 observed in YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ although much smaller than γ = 55 observed in optimally doped Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8−δ . It is interesting to note that the only ma- jor crystallographic difference between the a-b and the c directions in Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 is the presence of oxygen in the a-b plane, which allows coupling of adjacent Cu spins and has been implicated as the cause of antiferro- magntic ordering or spin fluctuations in other members of the high-T c cuprate family, as well as a possible mech- anism for superconducting pairing. The importance of the CuO 2 planes to the SC in Sr 0.9 M 0.1 CuO 2 is further supported by the fact that Ni substitution on the Cu site rapidly suppresses T c whereas out-of-plane Gd substitu- tion on the Sr site leaves T c unchanged. In this work we determine the upper critical field H c2 and the irreversibility field H irr of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 by means of magnetization and penetration depth measure- ments in pulsed magnetic fields up to 60 T in order to directly investigate the degree of upper critical field anisotropy and the role of vortex fluctuations. We also present specific heat (C) and magnetization (M ) mea- surements in low DC fields to 6 T as a function of tem- perature (T ) of Sr 0.9 Gd 0.1 CuO 2, confirming the bulk co- existence of Gd paramagnetism (PM) and SC. Our re- sults suggest strong confinement of the spin pairing wave function to the CuO 2 planes and significant field-induced superconducting fluctuations.
Noncrystalline samples of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 and Sr 0.9 Gd 0.1 CuO 2 were prepared under high pressures as described previously. Magnetization measurements in pulsed magnetic fields were performed at the National
: a) Change in resonant frequency ∆f of the TDO tank circuit relative to the normal state of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 as a function of magnetic field H of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 polycrystal at various temperatures T . The estimated change in penetration depth λ is indicated on the right axis. Inset: ∆f as a function of T at zero field where Tc = 43K. b) Derivative of λ with H for various T , with arrows indicating H kink . High Magnetic Field Laboratory (NHMFL) in Los Alamos, NM in a 3 He refrigerator in a 50 T magnet using a compensated coil. The sample consisted of four pieces of polycrystalline Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 with a total mass of 4.8 mg to maximize signal and minimize heating. The irreversibility field H irr was identified from the onset of reversibility in the M (H) loops. The penetration depth of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 was determined by measuring the frequency shift ∆f of a tunnel diode oscillator (TDO) resonant tank circuit with the sample contained in one of the component inductors. A ten turn 0.7 mm diameter aluminum coil was tightly wound around the sample with a filling factor of greater than 90%, with the coil axis oriented perpendicular to the pulsed field. To maintain temperature stability, the sample was thermally anchored to a sapphire plate and placed in 3 He exchange gas. Small changes in the resonant frequency can be related to changes in the penetration depth ∆λ by ∆λ = − R 2 rs ∆f f0 , where R is the radius of the coil and r s is the radius of the sample. In our case, R ∼ r s = 0.7 mm and the reference frequency f 0 ∼ 60 MHz such that ∆f = (0.16 MHz/µm)∆λ.
The frequency shift ∆f relative to the normal state and the corresponding ∆λ of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 are shown in as a function of H. The inset shows the T -dependence of ∆f in zero magnetic field. The nor- mal state resonant frequency f that is reached with in- creasing field can only be determined for T ≥ 30 K; for lower T the sample remains superconducting to 60 T so ∆f is estimated. The frequency shift of the empty coil has been subtracted from all data. In applied fields, the SC transition is very broad, which can be attributed to the large anisotropy in H c2 of the randomly orientated grains in the polycrystal.By contrast, the SC tran- sition as a function of T at H = 0 is very sharp, in- dicating a high quality sample. Therefore, the onset of diamagnetism with decreasing H in the λ(H) data can be identified with the largest H c2 , H ab c2 for fields in the CuO 2 planes. The onset is defined as H where ∆f > 5 kHz (∆λ > 30 nm), just above the noise of the exper- iment. Different onset criteria have only minor effects on the determination of H ab c2 , as shown in where H ab c2 using an onset criteria of 10 kHz and 20 kHz are shown as open circles and diamonds, respectively. The upper critical field H ab c2 is linear in T up to the H = 60 T maximum of the experiment, and extrapolates to 153 T at zero temperature. (Although if we assume the typ- ical Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg curvature for an or- bitally limited superconductor, 153 T would consti- tute an upper limit for H ab c2 ). The linearly extrapolated value of 153 T is close to the s-wave Pauli paramagnetic limit of H p c2 = ∆ √ 2µB = 159 T, where ∆ = 13 meV has been determined independently from STS data. This raises the possibility of spin-limited superconduc- tivity for H in the plane, which has also been observed in YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ.Determination of the critical fields for H along the c- axis, H c c2 , from these data on noncrystalline samples is more difficult. However, at fields below the onset of dia- magnetism we do observe a significant change in slope of the λ(H) data, indicated as H kink in . The H kink vs T curve is shown in and extrapolates to 12 T at zero temperature. This value of H kink (T = 0) is close to H c c2 = 14 T determined from a Hao-Clem analysis men- tioned previously. [5] We therefore associate H kink with H c c2 . In λ(H) measurements of a noncrystalline sample, a change in slope near H c c2 could be expected since the number of grains in the polycrystal that are supercon- ducting varies with H for H c c2 < H < H ab c2 , whereas for H < H c c2 the entire sample is superconducting, yield- ing different H dependencies of the flux expulsion in these two regions. Our data yield an anisotropy ratio γ = dH ab c2 dT / H c c2 dT ∼ 8, roughly in agreement with γ = 9.3 determined from low field studies. In penetration depth measurements of single crys- talline organic superconductors for H along the conduct- ing planes, a kink below H c2 for fields has been asso- ciated with the vortex melting transition.However, in this work we have determined the vortex dynamics separately by means of magnetization measurements in pulsed fields, and we find a significant difference be- tween the onset of irreversibility in M (H), H irr , and H kink as shown in . Following similar arguments for the λ(H) measurements, we note that H ab irr > H c irr in cuprate superconductors, therefore we assign the on- set of irreversibility for polycrystalline Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 to H ab irr . Although we can't rule out the possibility that H kink might be associated with a vortex phase trans- formation, the fact that H kink (T → 0) saturates, and H kink (T → 0) << H ab c2 (T → 0) indicates that H kink (T ) is unlikely caused by a thermally-induced vortex melt- ing transition for H||ab. Future pulsed-field measure- ments on grain-aligned or epitaxial thin film samples will be necessary to conclusively determine whether H kink (T ) obtained in this work may be identified with H c c2 (T ). The region between H ab irr and H ab c2 in the phase dia- gram in is significantly larger than is observed in other electron-doped high-T c compounds where H c2 typically tracks H irr . It is particularly surpris- ing that H ab irr (T → 0) ∼ 45 T is much smaller than H ab c2 (T → 0) ∼ 150 T. In hole-doped cuprates, a large separation between H irr and H c2 is often observed and is generally referred to as a vortex-liquid phase due to thermally induced fluctuations. The large discrepancy between H ab irr and H ab c2 in e-doped Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 even to T → 0 suggests the presence of field-enhanced SC fluc- tuations in Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 . Enhanced SC fluctuations down to very low T may be consistent with a scenario of SC coexisting with a competing order, such as a spin- density wave (SDW) near a quantum critical point. In particular, antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations associ- ated with the competing SDW can be enhanced by ex- ternal fields. The conjecture of a competing order in the SC state of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 is also consistent with our recent STS studies, where we observe the emergence of a second energy gap with increasing tunnelling current upon the closing of the SC gap. In con- trast to the SC gap, the current-induced gap is not spa- tially uniform probably due to interactions of the SDW with charge disorder. We note that experimental evidence for coexistence of a SDW with cuprate super- conductivity has been found in other high-T c compounds. To further investigate the dimensionality of the super-conductivity, low-field C(T ) and M (T, H) of polycrys- talline Sr 0.9 Gd 0.1 CuO 2 were measured with H up to 6 T and T down to 1.8 K in a Quantum Design Physical Properties Measurement System and a SQUID magne- tometer, respectively. In contrast to in-plane Ni substi- tution on the Cu site, out of plane Gd substitution on the Sr site does not suppress T c . In fact, the Gd ions exhibit local moment paramagnetism (PM) that coexists with SC to low T . shows M (H) at T = 5 K, and zero field/field cooled magnetization curves as a function of T in the inset. The M (H) curve in the main figure can be viewed as a superposition of a SC hysteresis curve and a Brillouin function resulting from the PM of Gd. Further proof for this coexistence is evident in the inset, which shows a large positive magnetization asso- ciated with Gd paramagnetism, but nevertheless signifi- cant hysteresis between zero-field-cooled and field-cooled curves, indicating superconductivity.
Field H vs temperature T phase diagram of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2. H ab c2 : onset of SC where ∆f exceeds 5 kHz in penetration depth measurements. Open circles and open diamonds indicate the 10 kHz and 20 kHz onsets, respectively. H ab irr : onset of irreversibility in pulsed field M vs H measure- ments. H kink : change in slope of λ(H), identified with H c c2 (see text). Open squares: onset of irreversibility in M vs T measurements by Jung et al. [3] Lines are guides to the eye.
Magnetization M vs H of polycrystalline Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2 at T = 5 K. Inset shows field-cooled (closed symbols) and zero-field-cooled (open symbols) M vs T data at H = 5 T, 2 T, and 0.5 T.
In , the magnitude of the paramagnetic contri- bution from the Gd ions is investigated quantitatively. The main figure shows C(T ) at H = 0 and H = 6 T. The H = 0 data is fit by a T 3 dependence to model the phonon contribution, (the electronic contribution at these temperature can be neglected). For H = 6 T, C(T ) can be fit by the same T 3 dependence as the H = 0 data, plus an additional contribution from the Gd paramag- netic moments, derived from mean field theory assuming the Hund's rule J = 7/2 moment, and one Gd ion for every ten unit cells. The fit is remarkable, considering that there are no fitting parameters. In the upper inset of , 1/χ is plotted as function of T , where the line is a Curie-Weiss fit with µ eff = 8.2µ B , which is close to the Hund's rule moment of 7.6 µ B and the typically ob- served Gd moment of 8 µ B . Thus we can conclude that all of the Gd ions in the sample are paramagnetic and coexist with SC down to 1.8 K, despite the close prox- imity of the Gd ions to the CuO 2 planes (1.7Å). This is evidence for a strong confinement of the superconduct- ing singlet spin pair wave function to the CuO 2 planes. On the other hand, the c-axis superconducting coherence
Main figure: specific heat C vs T at H = 0 and 6 T. Lines are fits to a field-independent T 3 phonon term plus a contribution from Gd paramagetism, assuming a Gd total momentum of J = 7/2. Upper inset: inverse magnetic susceptibility 1/χ vs T with H = 100 Oe, fit by a Curie-Weiss law above Tc = 43 K with µ eff = 8.2µB and θCW = −27 K. Lower inset: electronic specific heat ∆C vs T showing the superconducting transition. length ξ c = 5.2Å is longer than the spacing between the Gd ion and the CuO 2 planes (1.7Å), and also exceeds the interplane distance, implying 3D SC. The notion of 3D SC is corroborated by our STS studies, which probe the charge degrees of freedom and reveal an isotropic s-wave superconducting gap. The apparent problem of 3D isotropic s-wave SC coexisting with strong Gd local moments less than 1.7Å from the CuO 2 planes can be resolved by considering the spin and charge (orbital) de- grees of freedom of the Cooper pairs separately. Whereas the singlet spin pairing is confined to the CuO 2 planes, the orbital pair wave function could still overlap adjacent CuO 2 planes, resulting in 3D SC for all values of T < T c and H < H c2 . The bulk nature of the SC is evident in the lower inset of , which shows the electronic con- tribution to C plotted as ∆C/T vs T . The peak near 43 K is associated with T c, and the ratio ∆C/γT c is 2.9, assuming a Sommerfeld coefficient of γ = 1.2 mJ/mol K 2 .
In conclusion, a large upper critical field anisotropy ra- tio γ = 8 has been inferred from penetration depth mea- surements of Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2 in pulsed fields, despite the nearly cubic crystal structure. The in plane upper criti- cal field H ab c2 extrapolates close to the Pauli paramagnetic limit H P c2 = 159 T, suggesting possible spin limiting for this orientation, as has been observed in YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ . There is a large separation between H ab c2 and the irre- versibility field H ab irr , which extends down to T → 0, and is abnormal for electron doped high-T c cuprates. This suggests the existence of field-induced superconducting spin fluctuations perhaps due to a competing SDW. In spite of the significant anisotropy in the upper critical fields, ξ c is longer than the spacing between CuO 2 planes, indicating three-dimensionality of the orbital wave func- tion. The low-field thermodynamic measurements of M (T ) and C(T ) for Sr 0.9 Gd 0.1 CuO 2 polycrystals indi- cate a coexistence of bulk SC with Gd paramagnetism, with the full J = 7/2 Hund's rule moment despite the close proximity of Gd atoms to the CuO 2 planes, and a T c of 43 K in both Sr 0.9 Gd 0.1 CuO 2 and Sr 0.9 La 0.1 CuO 2. This can interpreted in terms of a strong confinement of the spin degrees of freedom of the Cooper pairs to the CuO 2 planes, whereas the orbital wave functions over- lap adjacent CuO 2 planes, and exhibit isotropic s-wave symmetry as determined by STS measurements.