Exceptional type-I superconductivity of the layered silver oxide Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 
We report zero-resistivity transition and the details of magnetic transition of a layered silver oxide Ag5Pb2O6 single crystal, which make definitive evidence of superconductivity in this compound. In the AC susceptibility of a mono-crystal, we observed large supercooling, as well as positive peaks in the real part of the susceptibility indicating the reversibility of magnetic process. These observations reveal that Ag5Pb2O6 is probably the first oxide that shows type-I superconductivity. Evaluation of the superconducting parameters not only gives confirming evidence of type-I superconductivity, but also indicates that it is a dirty-limit superconductor. We also analyze supercooling to determine the upper limit of the Ginzburg-Landau parameter.
In the last two decades, research of oxide supercon- ductors is one of the most actively-studied fields in solid state physics . Copper oxide high-T c superconductors 3 discovered in 1987 made the greatest impact to the field. Sr 2 RuO 4, with accumulating evidence for a spin-triplet superconductor , has attracted much attention. More recently, Na x CoO 2 •yH 2 O with a triangular lattice is widely studied because of the coexistence of superconduc- tivity and geometrical frustration and of possible novel superconducting phenomena. We note here that the unconventional superconductors of oxides listed above have layered structures, and that it is believed a quasi- two-dimensional crystal structure is favorable for uncon- ventional superconductivity. As possible candidates for novel unconventional superconductivity, silver oxides are particularly worth investigation, since they might have electronic structures analogous to the high-T c cuprates. However, the only silver oxide superconductors reported so far were cubic clathrate salts Ag 7 O 8 X (X=NO 3 , HF 2 , etc.) 7 found in 1966. Curiously, no other silver oxide su- perconductors have been reported for nearly 40 years, let alone those with layered structures.
Here we report the discovery of superconductivity in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 , with T c of 52.4 mK, an eagerly-awaited and the very first layered silver oxide superconductor. What is more, we clarified that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is a type-I supercon- ductor. This fact is rather surprising, since most type-I superconductors are pure metals and only a handful are known among compounds and alloys. To the best of our knowledge, reported compound type-I supercon- ductors are only ZrB 12 , YbSb 2 9 , LaPd 2 Ge 2 10 , M Pd 2 Si 2 (M =Lu, Y, La) 11 , TaSi 2 12 , AuIn 2 13 , C x K 14 (intercala- tion), LaRh 2 Si 2 11 ; thus Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is the first oxide type-I superconductors.
Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6, which was first reported by Byström and Evers in 1950 , has a rather interesting crystal structure (see the inset of ) consisting of a silver Kagome lat- tice parallel to its ab plane and silver chains along the c axis . This silver oxide exhibits metallic conductiv- ity. Band calculation by Brennan and Burdett shows that its conductivity mainly comes from Ag5s orbital, and that its Fermi surface has a quasi-three-dimensional character because both the silver chain and Kagome lat- tice contribute to the density of states at the Fermi level. Interestingly, the resistivity behaves as ρ = AT 2 + ρ 0 in an unusually wide range of temperature, down to below 4 K and up to room temperature . This means that unknown strong scattering mechanism dominates over the usual electron-phonon scattering. Superconductiv- ity of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 was recently suggested by the present authors . We reported quite a large diamagnetic sig- nal in the AC susceptibility measured using a cluster of single crystals below 48 mK but could not obtain zero resistivity at that time. We finally observed zero resis- tivity by improving experimental techniques, and present in this paper not only the observation but also the details of superconducting properties of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 for the first time.
(color online) Temperature dependence of the out- of-plane resistivity ρc of Ag5Pb2O6 below 70 mK. The sweep rate was approximately 0.05 mK/min. Hysteretic behavior at the transition is attributable to a residual magnetic field. The inset photo on the left shows the single crystal used for the measurements. The inset on the right shows the crystal structure of Ag5Pb2O6. Red and blue spheres represent the silvers on the Kagome lattice and the chain, respectively.
In the experiments, we used single crystals of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 grown by the self-flux method, from mixture of 5-mmol AgNO 3 and 1-mmol Pb(NO 3 ) 2 18 . All the mea- surements reported here were performed with a 4 He-3 He dilution refrigerator (Cryoconcept, Model DR-JT-S-100-10), covering the measurement temperatures as low as 16 mK. The resistivity was measured using a conven- tional four-probe method with an AC current of 10.4 µA rms at 163 Hz with a hexagonal-stick single crystal which fits in 0.14 × 0.21 × 1.15 mm 3 . We used pure gallium to attach electrical wires of copper to the sample crystals. We note here that one must keep the temperature of the electrodes well below the melting point of gallium (29 • C) all the time after soldering in order to avoid the electri- cal contacts getting worse. We avoided using gold wires because gallium easily dissolves gold. The AC suscepti- bility was measured by a mutual inductance method. We fabricated a very small and highly-sensitive cell by wind- ing a 50-µm-diameter copper wire on a 0.5-mm-diameter polyimide tube (The Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd., PIT-S). The excitation field H AC was 8.7 mOe rms at 887 Hz, which is much lower than the H c of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6. To re- duce the influences of remnant magnetic fields such as the earth's field and the residual field in the equipment, these measurements were performed in a magnetic shield. We used a cylinder of permalloy (Hamamatsu Photonics K.K., E989-28), which has an extremely high permeabil- ity. Inside the permalloy tube, we also placed a lead cylinder with a closed bottom, to expel the remaining magnetic flux. The DC magnetic field for the measure- ments was applied with a small solenoidal coil of Nb-Ti superconducting wire placed inside the shield. The mag- nitude of the DC field H DC is numerically calculated by taking into account the shielding current on lead shield's surface .
The observed zero-resistivity transition is shown in . A clear zero resistivity is seen, which marks defini- tive evidence of superconductivity of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . We note here that the result in was obtained without the magnetic shield. A hysteresis at the superconducting transition and a lower T c than that in the AC susceptibil- ity measurement are attributable to the influence of the uncanceled residual field. We confirmed that the hystere- sis indeed disappears in the measurement with the mag- netic shield. We next show in the real part of the AC susceptibility χ ′ AC of a mono-crystal with the mag- netic shield described below. It is worth noting that we used the identical crystal for the measurements for Figs. (see the left inset of ). We also note here that the diamagnetic signal shown in is as large as that of pure Al with a similar size and shape. Such results of the low-frequency susceptibility add a strong support for the bulk nature of the superconductivity in Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 . The measurements were performed under the condition H DC H AC c. The critical temperature T c to some extent depends on samples; the highest T c obtained is 52.4 mK, as shown in .
(color online) AC susceptibility of Ag5Pb2O6. (a) Re- sult of a temperature sweep with a sweep rate of 0.2 mK/min. The residual field Hres has been compensated in this sweep, yielding Tc0 = 52.4 mK. (b) Results of field sweeps at several temperatures with a sweep rate of 24-47 mOe/min. From the slight asymmetry of the data, the residual field is estimated as Hres = 0.040 Oe.
In Fig. , there are two strong pieces of evidence that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is a type-I superconductor. One is the fact that a large supercooling is observed at the superconduct- ing transition under magnetic fields while no supercooling is seen in zero field. This means that the superconduct- ing transition becomes first order only when an external field is applied. Such behavior is only seen in type-I su- perconductors. The other is the very large positive peaks of χ ′ AC just before the superconducting to normal tran- sitions. These peaks are ascribable to the "differential paramagnetic effect" (DPE) , which represents that the field derivative of the magnetization ∂M/∂H is positive near the transition and also the magnetic process in this region is reversible. In a type-I superconductor with a fi- nite size, the intermediate state takes place and the DPE should be observed. On the other hand, type-II supercon- ductors should show no or rather small DPE because of the irreversibity of magnetic process due to flux pinning. Thus the large DPE is a hallmark of type-I superconduc- tivity.
Phase diagram of the superconducting phase of Ag5Pb2O6, determined from the field-sweep data of ac sus- ceptibility. The residual field has been subtracted in the shield Hres = 0.040 Oe from the raw data. The filled squares are superconducting to normal transition field and should be equal to Hc (see text). The crosses are the supercool- ing field Hsc corresponding to the normal to superconduct- ing transitions. The broken line is the result of fitting with Hc(T ) = Hc0[1 − (T /Tc0) α ].
is the phase diagram based on the AC sus- ceptibility of the crystal with the highest T c . Here we identify the transition fields of the superconducting to normal transition as critical fields H c . This should be valid despite the possibility of superheating, because the observed DPE shows that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is in the intermedi- ate state, in which superconducting and normal states coexist, and there should be no superheating at the "transition" from the intermediate state to the normal state. We also define the normal to superconducting transition fields as supercooling fields H sc . This tran- sition should be from the normal to the full Meissner states since we observed no DPE. We can fit a relation H c (T ) = H c0 [1 − (T /T c0 ) α ] to all the H c data down to 16 mK using H c0 and α as fitting parameters, while T c0 = 52.4 mK is determined from the temperature sweep data in zero field. As a result, we obtained H c0 = 2.19 Oe and α = 1.56. The data can also be fitted by a conven- tional relation with α = 2: . However, the fitting is successful only down to T /T c = 0.7 and the resulting parameter is H * c0 = 1.80 Oe. Now we can evaluate some of the superconducting pa- rameters from these results. First, the London penetra- tion depth is obtained as λ L (0) = (m * c 2 /4πne 2 ) 1/2 = 83 nm. Here n = 1.0/V M = 0.51 × 10 22 electrons/cm 3 is the electron carrier density, where V M = 0.195 nm 3 is the volume of a unit cell 22 , and m * = (3 2 γ e )/(k 2 B k F ) = 1.2m e is the effective mass.
We used here the measured electronic specific heat coefficient 18 γ e = 3.42 mJ/mol K 2 = 291 erg/cm 3 K 2 , and the Fermi wavenumber k F = 4.5 nm −1 (in the ab plane) .
The Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherence length, ξ 0 = (0.18 v F )/(k B T c ) = 11 µm, where v F = k F /m * is the Fermi velocity, is comparable to that of tungsten 24 (ξ 0 = 32 µm, T c = 15.4 mK). The mean free path l is given by l = v F τ , where τ is the scattering time of elec- trons and has a relation τ −1 = ne 2 ρ/m * for the Drude model. If we use ρ = 1.5 µΩ cm, the residual resistivity in the ab plane 18 , we obtain l = 240 nm.
One of the important consequences of the above eval- uation is that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is a dirty-limit (ξ 0 ≫ l) su- perconductor. This is rather inevitable, since it seems practically impossible to make l longer than ξ 0 . In a dirty-limit superconductor, the GL parameter κ is given by κ = 0.75λ L (0)/l (Ref. , and is 0.26 in our case. This is indeed smaller than 1/ √ 2, the border between type-I and -II superconductors, and is consistent with the type-I behavior of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6. The dirty-limit conclusion also implies that the pairing symmetry of the superconductiv- ity is not anisotropic, because anisotropic superconduc- tivity should be easily suppressed even by non-magnetic impurities.
According to the GL theory, analysis of supercooling gives the upper limit of κ. When one decreases the ex- ternal field of a supercooled superconductor at constant temperature, the sample turns into the superconducting state before the field reaches the ideal supercooling field H sc,ideal . If the sample is in vacuum, H sc,ideal is equal to the surface nucleation field H c3 25 , which has a relation H c3 = 1.695H c2 = 1.695 √ 2κH c . The observed super- cooling field H sc satisfies an inequality: Thus κ must be smaller than κ sc ≡ H sc /(1.695 √ 2H c ). An approach based on this has been used to determine κ of several pure metals and alloys by observing ideal supercooling. For example, Feder and McLachlan 26 real- ized ideal supercooling of indium and tin with precise ex- periments and obtained κ In = 0.0620 and κ Sn = 0.0926.
We calculated κ sc of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 at each tempera- ture as shown in . The steep increase of κ sc close to T c is attributed to the size effect, which oc- curs when the temperature-dependent coherence length ξ(T ) ∝ [T c /(T c − T )] 1/2 ξ becomes comparable to the size of a sample. In fact, the coherence length, being ξ ∼ (ξ 0 l) 1/2 in a dirty-limit superconductor 27 , becomes 1.4 µm. This is large enough to cause the size effect near T c in a sample of 100-200 µm (∼ 100ξ). Indeed, in the experiments of Feder and McLachlan 26 a sphere of clean indium (ξ ∼ ξ 0 = 0.20 µm) with a radius 16 µm (∼ 80ξ) showed the size effect near T c.
Feder and McLachlan determined κ by extrapolating κ(T ) to T = T c , because the influence of nucleation centers becomes negligible near T c due to divergence of ξ(T ). Following their procedure we extrapolated κ sc (T ) in 35 mK < T < 47 mK to T c as the broken line in . The extrapolation gives κ sc | T =Tc = 0.085, which should be the upper limit of κ of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6. This estimated upper limit is smaller than the calculated value but the difference should be within a consistency. In the case of indium or tin , there are also differences of a few factors among values of κ obtained by different procedures.
The ratio κsc ≡ Hsc/(1.695 √ 2Hc) of Ag5Pb2O6, which gives the upper limit of the GL parameter. The up- turn of the graph near Tc is attributable to the size effect. The broken line is the result of linear fitting between T = 35 and 47 mK, where the size effect is not significant.
In conclusion, we succeeded in observing zero resistiv- ity transition of a silver oxide Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 , giving defini- tive evidence of the long-awaited layered silver oxide superconductor since the discovery of high-T c cuprates. The AC susceptibility reveals that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is an oxide type-I superconductor. It is widely considered that type-I superconductivity is rare in compounds, although there is no fundamental reason to prohibit it. The present discov- ery indeed demonstrates that even an oxide can be an ex- treme type-I superconductor. Superconducting parame- ters indicate that Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 is a dirty-limit type-I super- conductor and thus the pairing symmetry of Ag 5 Pb 2 O 6 should be isotropic. The discovery of this novel class of superconductor, silver oxide superconductor with a lay- ered structure, should motivate searches for more super- conductors among similar silver oxides. A salient next target is to adjust the doping to realize the electronic states with strong electron correlations, closely analogous to that of the high-T c cuprates, in order to seek for un- conventional superconductivity.