Superconductivity induced by spark erosion in ZrZn 2
We show that the superconductivity observed recently in the weak itinerant ferromagnet ZrZn2 [C. Pfleiderer et al., Nature (London) 412, 58 (2001)] is due to remnants of a superconducting layer induced by spark erosion. Results of resistivity, susceptibility, specific heat and surface analysis measurements on high-quality ZrZn2 crystals show that cutting by spark erosion leaves a supercon- ducting surface layer. The resistive superconducting transition is destroyed by chemically etching a layer of 5 µm from the sample. No signature of superconductivity is observed in ρ(T ) of etched samples at the lowest current density measured, J = 675 Am −2 , and at T ≥ 45 mK. EDX analysis shows that spark-eroded surfaces are strongly Zn depleted. The simplest explanation of our results is that the superconductivity results from an alloy with higher Zr content than ZrZn2.
Ferromagnetism in the cubic Laves compound ZrZn 2 was first discovered by Matthias and Bozorth 1 in 1958. Since this time, ZrZn 2 has attracted considerable theo- retical and experimental attention. In particular, some authors have suggested that metals which are close to a ferromagnetic instability at low temperatures, such as ZrZn 2 , may exhibit magnetically mediated p-wave superconductivity 2,3 . In principle, ZrZn 2 is an ideal ma- terial in which to search for such p-wave superconductiv- ity because it can be driven into the paramagnetic state by application of relatively modest pressures 4 . However, until recently, experiments failed to find any evidence for superconductivity in ZrZn 2.
Signatures of weak superconductivity were recently re- ported in the magnetic and transport properties of ZrZn 2 . In this paper, we show that spark erosion, a standard procedure for cutting metallic samples, can produce a superconducting surface layer on ZrZn 2 at ambient pres- sure. The samples used in the present work are from the same ingot as those used in Ref. and have residual resistance ratios (RRR's) as high as 105.
ZrZn 2 melts congruently at 1180 • C . At this tem- perature zinc has a vapor pressure of about 10 bars and is an aggressive flux. Thus we chose to grow ZrZn 2 by a directional cooling technique . Stoichiometric quan- tities of high-purity zone-refined Zr (99.99%, Materi- als Research MARZ grade) and Zinc (99.9999%, Metal Crystals) were loaded into a Y 2 O 3 crucible. The total charge used was 4.2 g. The crucible was sealed inside a tantalum bomb which was closed by electron beam welding under vacuum. The assembly was heated to 1210 • C and then cooled through the melting point at 2 • C hr −1 . The ingot was then annealed by cooling to 500 • C over a period of 72 hr. This method produced single crystals of volumes up to approximately 0.4 cm 3 . Single crystals produced in this way had residual resistiv- ities as low as ρ 0 = 0.53 µΩcm corresponding to RRR = ρ(293K)/ρ(T → 0) =105. This corresponds to a quasi- particle mean free path ℓ = 1500Å (assuming a Fermi surface area S F = 1.9 × 10 21 m −2 , as given by band- structure calculations 13 ).
All experiments reported here were measured at ambi- ent pressure. Resistivity measurements were made using a standard a.c. technique using a Brookdeal 9433 low- noise transformer and SR850 digital lock-in amplifier. Most measurements were made at a frequency f =2 Hz. Sample contacts were made with Dupont 4929 Ag/epoxy.
(a)-(e) The temperature dependence of the resistivity of ZrZn2 under various conditions and for different sample treatments. The current density J is calculated using the bulk cross-sectional area of the sample. (a) As grown sample cut by spark erosion (B = 0 T, J = 2000 Am −2 ); (b) as (a) followed by HF/HNO3 etching (B = 0 T, J = 2000 Am −2 ); (c) as (b) followed by further spark erosion (B = 0 T, J = 2000 Am −2 ); (d) The effect of applied field on ρ(T ) of a spark-eroded sample. (e) The dependence on current density of ρ(T ) of a spark-eroded sample. (f) ρ(T, B) for a zirconium film with a magnetic field applied in plane of film. Heat capacity measurements were made using a long- pulse technique in which the sample was mounted on a silicon platform connected to a temperature-controlled stage by a thin copper wire.
Energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis of sample sur- faces was performed on a Jeol JSM-5600LV scanning elec- tron microscope using a 20 kV incident electron beam. In order to make quantitative composition estimates, we recorded EDX spectra from sample surfaces and from ele- mental standards under identical conditions. All surfaces analyzed, except the spark-eroded surface, were prepared by polishing with 0.1 µm diamond lapping film in order to minimize errors due to geometrical effects.
A. Resistivity shows the temperature dependence of the re- sistivity for ZrZn 2 under various conditions and for dif- ferent sample treatments. In order to make resistivity measurements, bar-shaped samples were cut from the in- got by spark erosion using Mo wire. shows the ρ(T ) curve for a sample with all surfaces produced by spark erosion. A superconducting transition is observed with an onset temperature (T SC ) of about 0.6 K. To test whether the superconductivity is a bulk property or a property of the spark-eroded surfaces, we then etched the sample used in (a) in a solution containing 12 parts by volume of 69% HNO 3 , 5 parts 48% HF and 1000 parts H 2 O for 1 minute. This removed 5% of the sample mass, corresponding to a surface layer 5 µm thick. shows the resistivity measured after etching: the super- conducting transition has been removed. The sample was then spark-cut along its length to give two pieces, each having one spark-eroded surface. Panel (c) shows ρ(T ) for one of these. The superconducting transition has been restored. These results were obtained with the voltage contacts on the spark-eroded surface, but identical be- havior was observed when the experiment was repeated on another sample with the same treatment history and voltage contacts were placed on the etched surface oppo- site to the spark-eroded one. On this occasion, Cu wire was used as the spark-cutter electrode so contamination from the wire is excluded as a cause of surface supercon- ductivity. The disappearance of superconductivity af- ter etching and its subsequent reappearance after spark- cutting was reproduced in another sample. In well etched samples no sign of superconductivity was observed at the lowest current density measured J = 675 Am −2 and the lowest temperature T = 45 mK.
We also investigated the magnetic field dependence of the superconducting transition in spark-eroded ZrZn 2 samples. shows the resistive transitions mea- sured with a magnetic field applied perpendicular to the current and parallel to one of the spark-eroded sur- faces; the superconducting anomaly persists to fields
(a) The temperature dependence of the a.c. suscep- tibility of ZrZn2 (sample CY). Measurements were made with a modulation field of amplitude b = 1.2 µT and frequency f = 1.17 kHz. The large susceptibility in the normal state is due to the presence of ferromagnetism. (b) The field dependence of the a.c. susceptibility measured with the same modulation amplitude and frequency as the main figure. µ 0 H > 0.3 T. At first glance this implies a surprisingly high critical field to critical temperature ratio but as we discuss later this is easily explained by the reduction of the Meissner screening in a layer that is thin compared to the superconducting penetration depth. (f) shows resistivity results for a Zr film which will be compared with our results on ZrZn 2 below. The film was produced by evaporation of Zr wire on to a glass substrate under a vacuum of ≈ 10 −5 torr. The film thickness is estimated as ∼ 500 nm. Superconductivity persists with in-plane magnetic fields up to ∼ 1 T.
shows a.c. susceptibility measurements made on a spark-eroded sample of ZrZn 2 . The susceptometer was calibrated by measuring the superconducting transition of an indium sample at low frequencies (f =1.5-5 Hz). The data have not been corrected for the effects of the demagnetization field. shows that both the real and imaginary components of the susceptibility (χ ′ and χ ′′ ) are large in the temperature range 0.6 < T < 1.
The specific heat capacity of ZrZn2 (sample CS) in zero applied field measured by a relaxation method. The absence of a heat capacity anomaly at TSC strongly suggests that the bulk is not superconducting above 0.3 K. due to the alignment of ferromagnetic domains by the applied field. Below the onset temperature of the spark erosion-induced superconductivity T SC ≈ 0.6 K, the real part of the susceptibility begins to drop and the imagi- nary part starts to increase. There is a large drop in the susceptibility ∆χ ′ ≈ 2, however full Meissner screening [χ ′ = −1/(1 − N )] is not observed. We estimate the de- magnetization factor of the sample to be N ≈ 0.2. It appears that spark erosion induces a thin superconduct- ing layer which partially shields the ferromagnetic core. shows the a.c. susceptibility measured in the presence of d.c. magnetic fields up to 2 T for T =0.05 K and T =1.6 K. The difference between the 0.05 K and 1.6 K curves shows that some parts of the sample have critical fields up to 0.9 T.
One of the most direct signatures of bulk supercon- ductivity is the specific heat anomaly. shows the specific heat capacity, plotted as C(T )/T , for a sample (CS) cut from a region of the ingot next to that used for the resistivity and susceptibility measurements. As in previous work 9 , no specific heat capacity anomaly is observed, strongly suggesting the absence of bulk super- conductivity above T = 0.3 K in this sample.
We have demonstrated above that spark erosion of ZrZn 2 induces a superconducting layer. In order to de- termine the nature of the changes in the surface layer that cause the behavior shown in , we per- formed spot-mode EDX analysis on a spark-cut surface of a superconducting ZrZn 2 sample [] and on a
Panel (a): SEM image of a polished ZrZn2 sample. The polished face is normal to the incident electron beam; the sample edge, indicated by arrows, is defined by a spark-cut surface that is approximately parallel to the beam. Thus the EDX analysis at position C probes a region 1 − 2 µm below the spark-cut face. Panel (b): SEM image of a spark-cut sample. Panel (c): examples of raw EDX spectra obtained on spark-cut and polished samples, showing Zn depletion of the spark-cut surface. polished surface []. The latter was exposed by cleaving a sample such that the cleave plane was perpen- dicular to a spark-cut surface; the cleaved surface was then polished to ensure that it was flat and perpendic- ular to the incident electron beam. We estimate that the spatial resolution of the EDX probe is ∼ 1 µm in all directions .
The EDX spectra taken on nominally ZrZn 2 surfaces [see (c)] contain three characteristic X-ray emis- sion peaks that provide useful information about sample composition: Zn-Lα (1.0 keV), Zr-Lα (2.0 keV) and Zn-Kα (8.6 keV). The spectra in show at a glance that the Zr peak is enhanced relative to both Zn peaks on the spark-cut surface compared to the polished sur- face, suggesting that spark erosion causes Zn depletion at the surface. We verified this by quantitative EDX analysis using spectra obtained both on ZrZn 2 samples and on pure element standards in identical conditions; for each peak i, the ratio k i of peak area in the ZrZn 2 spectrum to that in the spectrum of the pure element standard was found. To a first approximation, the mass concentration of each element in the test sample is given
TABLE I: Atomic concentration results of spot EDX analy- sis on polished and spark-cut samples of ZrZn2. The position labels correspond to those in . A ZAF correction pro- cedure using pure element standards was used to calculate atomic concentrations. Two characteristic Zn peaks, Zn-Kα (8.6 keV) and Zn-Lα (1.0 keV), were used to give two distinct concentration estimates; the agreement of the two estimates shows that the roughness of the spark-cut surface does not prevent a quantitative analysis. We conclude that the com- position of the spark-cut surface varies but that it is always Zn depleted.
by these standard-normalized peak areas k i . However, it is well known that corrections 14 must be applied to take account of the way in which the composition of the test sample affects e.g. the electron beam penetration and the absorption of generated X-rays. Therefore we used a standard iterative ZAF (atomic number, absorption and fluorescence) correction procedure as implemented in the CITZAF package 15 to give accurate atomic concentra- tions, which are summarized in . The quantita- tive result for the polished surface is in good agreement with the nominal atomic concentration (i.e. 33.3% Zr, 66.7% Zn) and the small difference is within the error arising from imperfect ZAF correction as discussed later.
There is no dependence of the composition on distance from the spark-cut surface in the results shown for the polished surface, implying that any compositional change extends to a depth ≤ 1 − 2 µm. The results for the spark- cut surface show that the composition varies as a func- tion of position but that it is always Zn-depleted, and that it includes regions that are close to Zr 2 Zn in com- position. Atomic concentrations shown in are normalized to 100% but we note that no significant con- taminant peaks are present in any of the spectra used to produce these results. For each sample spectrum two different composition estimates were obtained, the first using only the Zr-Lα and Zn-Kα peaks and the second using Zr-Lα and Zn-Lα. The presence of two character- istic Zn X-ray peaks of very different energy provides a check on our correction procedure because the correction factor is much larger for Zn-Lα than for Zn-Kα. The excellent agreement between the two estimates for the polished surface shows that the correction procedure pro-vides accurate results in this ideal geometry. The small discrepancy (at the 1% atomic concentration level) may arise, for example, from the correction model used or from a slight tilt of the sample surface relative to the electron beam. Importantly, the results for the spark-cut surface obtained using the different Zn peaks are also in good agreement. The discrepancy is larger than in the case of the polished surface due to the effects of surface roughness on the X-ray intensity corrections. However, it is still small compared to the dramatic Zn depletion observed. Thus, we have shown that cutting ZrZn 2 by spark erosion causes the formation of a Zn-depleted sur- face layer of thickness ≤ 1 − 2 µm.
We have demonstrated that ZrZn 2 is very susceptible to surface damage caused by spark erosion. The spark erosion process causes the surface layer to be depleted of Zn. Removal of the remaining Zr-rich surface layer requires an HF-based etch or electropolishing. In the course of this work we have found that un-etched spark- cut regions can easily be left on the surface if they are protected, for example, by organic material such as rem- nants of Ag/epoxy paint contacts. The resulting samples show resistive downturns like those observed in Ref. . Although the resistivity measurements reported in Ref. were made with contacts on cleaved surfaces, the current path included remnants of spark-cut surfaces.
Our EDX measurements show that although the com- position of the spark-cut surface varies in space, it is always more Zr-rich than ZrZn 2 . The high mobility of Zn in the surface layer of ZrZn 2 is likely to be connected with the low melting point of Zn, T m = 419.6 • C. No re- gions of elemental Zr or Zn were observed at the 1 µm resolution of the EDX probe. Thus the simplest expla- nation for our results is that the observed downturns in ρ(T ) and χ(T ) are due to a surface layer of a supercon- ducting alloy, with higher Zr content than ZrZn 2, that is created by spark erosion. It is unlikely that spark cutting produces pure Zr because of the high solubility of Zn in Zr . Other scenarios are also possible. One in- triguing possibility is that spark erosion creates strained layers near the surface which are superconducting .
A feature of the spark-erosion-induced superconduct-ing layer in ZrZn 2 is its large critical field to critical tem- perature ratio. It is well known that the critical field of a superconducting sample is enhanced with respect to the bulk thermodynamic critical field B c when the sample is sufficiently small in at least one direction ⊥ B to allow penetration of magnetic flux . For example, Al films of thickness 250Å can show T SC ≈ 1.7 K and a critical field of 1.9 T . demonstrates this effect in a film of Zr: the critical field of the film is ∼ 1 T (close to the paramagnetic limit B para c = 1.84 T c ) com- pared to that of bulk Zr, B c ≈ 0.0047 T . A similar enhancement is likely to occur in spark-eroded ZrZn 2 at any regions of the superconducting layer that are thin compared to the penetration depth.
We now comment on the pressure dependence of T SC and T FM . Ref. 9 suggested that superconductivity and ferromagnetism vanished simultaneously at a critical pressure p c ∼ 20 kbar. More detailed measurements of T FM (p) have now shown that ferromagnetism in fact disappears in a first order transition at a lower pres- sure p c (FM) = 16.5 kbar. Unfortunately no new data are available for T SC (p), but the results in Ref. show that 13 < p c (SC) < 22 kbar. Thus the two p c 's lie close to each other, but further measurements of T SC (p) would be needed to establish whether the superconductivity of the surface layer is related to ferromagnetism in the bulk.
In summary, spark erosion induces a superconducting layer in ZrZn 2 . If this surface layer is removed by chem- ical etching the resistive superconducting transition dis- appears. EDX analysis of spark-cut surfaces shows that they are Zn depleted. The simplest explanation for the induced superconductivity is that it is due to a change in chemical composition caused be the spark erosion. It remains to be seen whether higher quality ZrZn 2 is su- perconducting at ambient pressure and above.