Study of pressure effect on the magnetic penetration depth in MgB 2
A study of the pressure effect on the magnetic penetration depth λ in polycrystalline MgB2 was performed by measuring the temperature dependence of the magnetization under an applied pressure of 0.15 and 1.13 GPa. We found that λ −2 at low temperature is only slightly affected by pressure [ ∆λ −2 λ −2 = 1.5(9)%], in contrast to cuprate superconductors, where, in the same range of pressure, a very large effect on λ −2 was found. Theoretical estimates indicate that most of the pressure effect on λ −2 in MgB2 arises from the electron-phonon interaction.
Shortly after the discovery of the superconductivity in MgB 2 at 39 K, several investigations of the pressure de- pendence of the superconducting critical temperature T c were carried out. Indeed, the magnitude and sign of dT c /dp may indicate a way to rise T c at ambient pressure, and moreover, help to understand the superconducting pairing mechanism. So far, all these studies show that T c decreases with increasing pressure, with a rate depend- ing on the method and the pressure medium used. The first hydrostatic measurement of T c (p) up to 0.7 GPa, re- veals that T c decreases reversibly under hydrostatic pres- sure at the rate dT c /dp = − 1.11(2) K/GPa. The be- havior of T c (p) with pressure in MgB 2 was attributed to the pressure induced lattice stiffening (increase of the phonon frequency), 5,6 rather than to the decrease in the electronic density of states N(E F ), that is only moder- ately affected by pressure. Comparison with theoreti- cal calculations supported the view that MgB 2 is a BCS superconductor with moderately strong electron-phonon coupling. Apart from T c , an other relevant superconducting pa- rameter is the magnetic field penetration depth λ. In fact the so-called superfluid density λ −2 is related to the Fermi velocity and to the density of charge carri- ers, and its temperature dependence gives information on the symmetry and on the magnitude of the supercon- ducting gap. A study of pressure effects on λ −2 (0) can give important informations on how the electronic de- grees of freedom are affected by lattice modifications and on the nature of the electron-phonon coupling. Indeed, in cuprates high temperature superconductors (HTS), a huge pressure effect on λ −2 (0) was found, in particu- lar in YBa 2 Cu 4 O 8 (Y124). Part of this effect was at- tributed to the strong renormalization of the Fermi ve- locity, and therefore to the effective mass, due to the non- adiabatic coupling of the electrons to the lattice. This result is in agreement with the substantial oxygen iso- tope effect found in cuprates and can be in- terpreted in the framework of non-adiabatic theory of superconductivity. 14 In this paper we report measurements of the mag- netic penetration depth under pressure in polycrystalline MgB 2 . The temperature dependence of λ −2 (T ) was ex- tracted from the Meissner fraction f measured in a low magnetic field. A small pressure (p) effect on λ −2 (0) was found [ ∆λ −2 λ −2 = 1.5(9)%], for pressure ranging from 0.15 to 1.13 GPa. Theoretical calculations of the pressure ef- fect on λ(0) confirm the smallness of this effect [ ∆λ −2 λ −2 ≃ 1.4%]. These results contrast with the huge effect (∼ 40 %) on λ −2 (0) found in the non-adiabatic cuprate super- conductor Y124 in the same range of pressure 8 .
The MgB 2 powder sample was prepared by solid state reaction in flowing argon. As starting materials we used Mg flakes and amorphous boron (Alfa Aesar). A pellet with starting composition Mg 1.1 B 2 was placed in a BN crucible and fired in a tube furnace under pure Ar gas. The sample was heated for one hour at 600 • C, one hour at 800 • C, and one hour at 900 • C.
The sample was first ground and then sieved in or- der to obtain a small grain size R<10 µm, needed for the determination of λ from the Meissner fraction mea- surements. The hydrostatic pressure was produced in a copper-beryllium piston cylinder clamp, especially de- signed for magnetization measurements under pressure (see Ref ). The sample was put in a teflon cylin- der and the pressure cell was then filled with Fluorinert FC77 as pressure transmitting medium. The Meissner fraction was calculated from low field magnetization mea- surements (field cooling) performed with a commercial Superconducting Quantum Interference Device. In the approximation of spherical grains with average radius R, the Meissner fraction can be related to the magnetic pen- etration depth via the Shoenberg formula: 16 (1) Any change in χ/χ 0 due to pressure can be attributed mainly to a change of λ(T ), rather than to a change of R, which is practically pressure independent. The sam- ple was measured at low pressure p L = 0.15 GPa and at the highest pressure available p H = 1.13 GPa. The pres- sure values were determined from a preliminary calibra- tion measurement, where the same sample was measured in the pressure cell together with a small piece of lead. The pressure was detected by measuring the T c shift of lead (T c (0kbar)=7.2K). We found dT c /dp = − 1.24(5) K/GPa, in good agreement with previous results. The real zero-pressure measurement could not be performed in the pressure cell, since, in order to seal the cell, at least a small pressure had to be applied. In the temperature dependence of the normal- ized magnetization of MgB 2 at p L and p H is shown in the vicinity of T c , together with the zero pressure p Z measurement performed on the same sample in a quartz tube. The T c's were obtained from the intercept of the linear extrapolations (see The magne- tization curves shift systematically with increasing pres- sure towards lower temperature. In the inset of we show the normalized magnetization as a function of the reduced temperature t = T /T c for p L and p H . The identical temperature dependences for both pressure val- ues indicate the absence of stresses in the sample due to pressure.
Field cooled (0.5 mT) normalized magnetization of MgB2 as a function of temperature in the vicinity of Tc for pZ (open circles), pL (filled circles), and pH (open squares). The inset show the full normalized magnetization data for pL and pH as a function of the reduced temperature t = T /Tc. Note that some of the data points were dropped for clarity.
From the magnetization the Meissner fraction was ex- tracted. Because of the unknown mass of the sample in the pressure cell, the Meissner fraction for the lowest pressure (p L =1.5 kbar) was normalized at low temper- ature with the value obtained by measuring the same sample in a quartz tube at zero pressure p Z . The val- ues of λ −2 were then calculated using the Shoenberg for- mula (Eq. (1). The p Z and p L data were normalized at low temperature to the absolute value of λ −2 mea- sured with the muon spin rotation technique (µSR) on the same sample at zero pressure. We define the shift of λ −2 between two different pres- sures p L (lower) and p H (higher) at a temperature T as: The temperature dependences of λ −2 for p L and p H , are shown in , together with the p Z data measured in the quartz tube. The λ −2 (T ) curves for p Z and p L overlap perfectly for temperatures not too close to T c , where a small pressure shift is present. Unfortunately, we were not able to obtain reliable data below 7K be- cause of a large background signal due to lead impurities in the pressure cell. Therefore, while for the p Z measure- ment in the quartz tube we show the data down to 2 K, for the p L and the p H measurements we show the data only down to 7 K (see lower panel of ). Due to the pressure effect on T c, the curves for p L and p H are clearly distinct at high temperature, but they merge at low tem- perature. The error bars on λ −2 (not shown) were deter- mined considering that magnetization measurements are reproducible within ≈ 0.5 %.
The shift of λ −2 at the lowest temperature available T ≃ 7 K between p L = 0.15 GPa and p H = 1.13 GPa (see Eq. 2) is: ∆λ −2 /λ −2 = 1.2(1.1)%. This result shows that only a very small pressure effect on λ −2 is present. The pressure results are summarized in To determine the pressure effect on the zero tempera- ture λ −2 (0), a fit to the experimental data is needed. It was well established that MgB 2 is a two band supercon- ductor with two superconducting gaps of different size, the larger one originating from the 2D σ-band and the smaller one from the 3D π-band . Taking this into account, the temperature dependence of λ, in the low temperature range, can be written in the form : Here, ∆ 1 and ∆ 2 are the zero temperature small and large gap associated to the π and σ bands, respectively, and w = λ −2 1 (0)/λ −2 (0). The zero pressure data were then fitted to Eq. 3 up to 22 K. The fit gave the following results: λ −2 (0) = 91.1(2) µ m −2 , w = 0.22(3); ∆ 1 = 2.3(2) meV, ∆ 2 = 7.4(4) meV. The estimated gaps are in good agreement with previous results from penetration depth measurements .
Because of the lack of data below 7 K for p L and p H , these data were analysed with fixed w obtained from the fit to the zero-pressure data. Here it is assumed that w is not affected by pressure up to 1.13 GPa. This as- sumption will be shown below to be correct by our model calculations [see Eq.]. The other fitting parameters (λ −2 (0) and the gaps) were left free. As shown by the
a) λ −2 as a function of temperature for pZ = 0 GPa (open circles), pL = 0.15 GPa (filled circles), and pH = 1.13 GPa (open squares). b) Low temperature region on a larger scale. The error bars (not shown) for temperatures below 10 K, are about two times the symbol size and decrease with increasing temperature. The solid and dashed lines are fits to the pL and pH data, respectively, using Eq. 3. Note that the data points are much more dense than what is shown in this figure, since part of them were dropped for clarity. solid and dashed lines in panel b) of Fig. 2, the data are well described by Eq. (3). In particular the fitted curve of the p L data (solid line) follows very well the p Z data below 7 K, as expected. The fit yields for λ −2 (0): λ −2 (0) pL = 90.9(5)µm −2 and λ −2 (0) pH = 92.3(6)µm −2 (see ). So that the relative shift of λ −2 at T = 0 between p L = 1.5 kbar and p H = 11.3 kbar is [see Eq. (2)]: This result indicates that there is a small, but not zero, pressure effect on the magnetic penetration depth at 0 K in the range p = 0.15 -1.13 GPa. A summary of the pressure results are reported in . All the fitting parameters are summarized in . The two gaps show a small decrease with increasing pressure, in agree-
TABLE I: Summary of the experimental and theoretical esti- mations of the pressure shift of λ −2 .
ment with the corresponding decrease of T c . In we added also the ratio 2∆/k B T c calculated for ∆ 1 and ∆ 2 at each pressure. This ratio results to be pressure independent within errors. Considering that p H − p L ≃ 1 GPa, Eq. (4) indi- cates that d ln λ −2 (0)/dp is of the order of few %/GPa. Since λ −2 (0) is proportional to the squared plasma fre- quency, ω 2 p , then a free electron gas estimate would give d ln λ −2 (0)/dp = 1/B ≃ 0.65%/GPa, where we have used ω 2 p ∝ 1/Ω, being B = −dp/d ln Ω ≃ 155 GPa the bulk modulus of MgB 2 , and Ω the volume of the unit cell. As we show below, an improved estimate which takes into ac- count MgB 2 band structure effects does not change much the free electron gas result. Let us consider the zero tem- perature expression of the penetration depth: 25 where the integral runs over the Fermi surface S n F of the n-th band (n = σ, π) and v n (s) is the correspond- ing surface bare electron velocity vector. Let us use the model of Ref. where the π bands are modeled by a half-torus Fermi surface of area S 1 and Fermi velocity v 1 , while the σ bands are approximated by a cylindrical Fermi surface of area S 2 and Fermi velocity v 2 . Equation (5) then reduces simply to λ −2 (0) = λ −2 where w = λ −2 is the parameter introduced in Eq.(3). Within the same ap- proximations, the electron density of states at the Fermi level reads N F = N 1 + N 2 , where N i ∝ ΩS i /v i is the partial density of states for the band i = 1, 2. Therefore, since λ −2 i (0) ∝ S i v i ∝ ΩS 2 i /N i , and considering that S 1 and S 2 scale as Ω −2/3 , Eq.(6) reduces to: where we have introduced the parameter η = (d ln N 1 /dp)/(d ln N 2 /dp) whose calculated value ranges between η ≃ 1, 27 and η ≃ 0. Hence, by setting d ln N F /dp ≃ −0.31%/GPa, 7 w = 0.22, and N 2 /N F ≃
TABLE II: Fitting parameters obtained from the fit of the experimental data showed in Fig. 2 by the Eq. (3). By the same token, it is easy to show that: confirming the assumption dw/dp = 0 used in obtaining Eq.(4).
Our estimate ∆λ −2 /λ −2 ≃ (0.5 ÷ 0.8)% does not devi- ate from the free eletron gas result, suggesting that other factors than band structure should be considered in or- der to explain the measured value reported in Eq.(4). It is then natural to consider the electron-phonon inter- action λ el−ph . The pressure effect on λ el−ph in MgB 2 is mainly due to a pressure induced hardening of the optical phonon modes. The electron-phonon renormalized pen- etration depth is λ * −2 (0) = λ −2 (0)/(1 + λ el−ph ), where λ −2 (0) is the bare quantity we have considered before. Hence: d ln λ * −2 (0) dp ≃ (0.5 ÷ 0.8)%/GPa − λ e−ph 1 + λ e−ph d ln λ e−ph dp , which, by using d ln λ e−ph /dp ≃ −1.7%/GPa, 7 and λ el−ph ≃ 1, 29 corresponds to ∆λ −2 /λ −2 ≃ (1.4 ÷ 1.7)%, in better agreement with Eq.(4). This simple analysis evidences therefore that the electron-phonon interaction provides the main contribution to the pressure effect on the zero temperature penetration depth. This theoreti- cal estimate of the pressure shift of λ(0) −2 is reported in the for a direct comparison with the experimental finding.
Similar experiment on the Y124, in the same range of pressure, gives a very large effect on λ(0) −2 (∼ 40%). Arguments are used there to deduce that part (∼ 30%) of this large effect is due to the pressure dependence of the Fermi velocity, because of the non-adiabatic electron- lattice coupling. From the results of the present work, we can therefore argue that such non-adiabatic effects on λ(0) −2 are negligible in MgB 2 , as previously demon- strated by µSR measurements. In summary, we studied the pressure effect on the magnetic penetration depth at low temperature in poly- crystalline MgB 2 . We found that pressure up to 1.13 GPa induces a small positive change in λ(0) −2 [ ∆λ −2 λ −2 = 1.5(9)%], which is suggested to be due mostly to a pres- sure change of the electron-phonon coupling.