Structural properties of the sesquicarbide superconductor La 2 C 3 at high pressure
The effect of pressure on the structural properties of lanthanum sesquicarbide La2C3 (Tc = 13 K) has been investigated at room temperature by angle-dispersive powder x-ray diffraction in a diamond anvil cell. The compound remains in the cubic Pu2C3-type structure at pressures up to at least 30 GPa. The corresponding equation of state parameters are reported and discussed in terms of phase stability of La2C3. Pressure-volume data of the impurity phase LaC2 are reported also for pressures up to 13 GPa.
Superconductivity in binary rare earth carbides has been an intensively investigated topic for many years. Outstanding in this family of compounds with respect to their superconducting transition temperatures T c are the sesquicarbides RE 2 C 3 , RE being the nonmagnetic rare earth metals Y and La. These systems recently regained attention due to the finding by Amano et al. and Nakane et al. who reported the successful synthesis of binary Y 2 C 3 under high pressure conditions (∼5 GPa). They re- ported transition temperatures T c and critical fields B c2 of 18 K and >30 T, respectively. 1,2 All RE carbides of composition RE 2 C 3 are isotypic; they crystallize in the cubic Pu 2 C 3 structure-type 3 (see ). Electronic structure calculations, based on the Pu 2 C 3 structure type, have been carried out recently for Y 2 C 3 by Shein et al. and by Singh and Mazin 5 specifically discuss the origin and magnitude of the electron-phonon coupling in Y 2 C 3 . They identify low-frequency metal atom vibrations to have the largest
(Color online) The Pu2C3-type cubic crystal struc- ture of La2C3 [space group (SG) I43d (No. 220), Z = 8 formula units in the cubic cell]. The dicarbide anions occupy the voids in bisphenoids of the metal substructure. Note: Dif- ferent from the standard crystallographic setting, the origin of the indicated unit cell is shifted into a La position. coupling whereas the contribution of the high-frequency C-C stretching vibrations is found to be comparatively small.
So far, the samples of Y 2 C 3 showing a T c of 18 K have been characterized by x-ray powder diffraction only. A more detailed investigation of these phases with respect to the exact composition and the phase diagram is still pending. In this respect La 2 C 3 , which shows supercon- ductivity with T c up to 13.2 K and which can be prepared at ambient pressure, is better understood. We report here the equation of state and the effect of pressure on the structure of La 2 C 3 . The structural prop- erties were measured up to 30 GPa using synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction in the angle-dispersive mode. Our primary motivation was to investigate how pressure affects the structural degrees of freedom of the Pu 2 C 3 - type phase; these are thought to play a key role in con- trolling the details of the electronic structure in the vicin- ity of the Fermi level. Second, the equation of state and phase stability of La 2 C 3 is of interest in the context of pressure synthesis of rare earth carbides. To our knowl- edge, pressure-dependent studies similar to the ones pre- sented here have not been reported so far for any of the known rare earth and actinide sesquicarbides.
The superconducting properties of La 2 C 3 depend sen- sitively on the carbon content. Spedding et al. and Gschneidner et al. report a homogeneity regime for La 2 C 3−x which ranges from 56.2 at.-% to 60.2 at.-% car- bon with cubic lattice parameters from 8.803Å to 8.818 A, respectively. Recently, Simon and Gulden reinves- tigated the phase diagram of La 2 C 3−x (0 < x < 0.33). 8 They find that the boundary phases with x = 0 and x = 0.33 are homogeneous but that by sufficiently ex- tended annealing, samples within the homogeneity range tend to phase separate into the boundary phases with x = 0 and x = 0.33. According to magnetic suscepti- bility measurements these boundary phases have sharp
Diamagnetic shielding and electrical resistance (in- set) of the La2C3 sample used for the high-pressure x-ray diffraction experiment. The diamagnetic shielding was mea- sured in a field of 0.7 mT after the sample had been cooled in zero field to 2 K. superconducting transitions at 5.6 K and at 13.2 K, respectively. The latter value obtained for the stoichio- metric phase La 2 C 3 is appreciably increased over the early T c of 11 K reported by Giorgi et al. The 13.2 K phase shows critical fields B c2 ≥ 17 T, significantly en- hanced over B c2 = 12 T found by Francavilla et al. (see also Ref. ). The polycrystalline sample of La 2 C 3 used in the present study was prepared by arc melting appropri- ate quantities of La metal (Alfa, 99.99%) and graphite chips (Deutsche Carbone, 99.99%) with a slight excess (2 to 3%) of graphite. The graphite chips had been heated (1050 • C) and degassed in vacuum (10 −5 mbar) for one day and then stored in a dried argon atmosphere. The sample pellets were annealed at 650 • C for 3 days and cooled to room temperature at a rate of 10 • C/hr. All subsequent sample manipulations, including prepa- rations for pressure experiments, were done in dry argon atmosphere.
The phase composition was checked by laboratory- based powder x-ray diffraction measurements using Cu Kα 1 radiation; these showed La 2 C 3 as the majority phase (∼85 %) with a lattice parameter of 8.8150(6)Å. Weak additional reflections were observed which are attributed to an impurity phase of tetragonal LaC 2 (a=3.9323(6)Å, c=6.574(1)Å), its overall fraction be- ing less than ∼15 %. The superconducting properties of the sample were determined by resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and heat capacity measurements. The re- sistive transition (midpoint) and the onset of diamag- netic shielding occurs at T onset c =13.5(1) K (see ). The width of the resistive transition (10%-90% criterion) amounts to 0.1 K. The heat capacity proves bulk su- perconductivity with a characteristic anomaly at T c of ∆C p /(γT c ) ≈ 2.2; the deviation from the standard BCS anomaly is most likely due to enhanced electron-phonon coupling.
Observed, calculated, and difference x-ray powder diffraction patterns for La2C3 at 5.0 and 15 GPa. The diffrac- tion patterns were refined assuming an admixture of a tetrag- onal LaC2 phase. Vertical markers indicate Bragg reflections of the two phases. For the synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurements the sample was ground to a fine powder and a small amount of the powder was transferred into the gasket of a diamond anvil cell. Nitrogen was used as a pressure medium. When nitrogen solidifies (2.5 GPa at 300 K), it causes some additional Bragg reflections (typically weak) due to its various high-pressure phases. Angle- dispersive powder x-ray diffraction patterns (wavelength λ = 0.4176Å) were measured at the beamline ID9 of the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, using image plate detection. The images were integrated using the program FIT2D to yield intensity versus 2θ diagrams. To improve powder averaging, the DAC was oscillated by ±3 • . The ruby luminescence method was used for pressure measurement.
Figure shows representative diffraction diagrams of La 2 C 3 collected at 5 and 15 GPa. The cubic phase of La 2 C 3 was observed up to the highest pressure of this study, 30.7 GPa, and after releasing pressure. Extra Bragg reflections seen in the diffraction diagrams are consistent with the presence of tetragonal LaC 2 (SG I4/mmm, No. 139, Z=4)e. The reflections due to LaC 2 gradually disappeared in the pressure range 10-13 GPa. Upon releasing pressure, the tetragonal phase was clearly present again at ambient conditions.
The diffraction patterns were analyzed by the Ri- etveld method using the program GSAS. The re- fined parameters of the sesquicarbide phase (space group I43d) were the lattice constant, the fractional coordinate (x, x, x) of the 16c (La) site, a common isotropic thermal parameter for all atom sites, a Chebyshev polynomial background, Pseudo-Voigt profile function parameters, and an overall intensity scaling factor. The refinements were not sensitive to the exact value of the positional pa- rameter v, 0, 0.25 of the carbon 24d site. Hence, v was fixed at 0.3049 , corresponding to a C-C distance of 1.236Å at ambient, and assumed independent of pres- sure. A preferred orientation correction was applied, but was found to result in only minor improvements of the refinements. Two-phase refinements were performed in order to account for the admixture of tetragonal LaC 2 , but only the unit cell parameters were refined for this phase; its internal parameter for the carbon position was assumed constant (z=0.4024, corresponding to a C-C distance of 1.284Å at ambient). illustrates the results of the refinements for the two patterns collected at 5.0 and 15.0 GPa. The convergence was achieved at residuals (with a subtracted background) R wp = 8.7% for 5 GPa and at R wp = 8.2% for 15 GPa.
The experimental pressure-volume data of La 2 C 3 are shown in . At 30 GPa, La 2 C 3 is compressed by 18% and the volume is comparable to that of Y 2 C 3 at ambient conditions. The pressure-volume data were fitted by a Birch equation of state 20 where x = (V /V 0 ) 1/3 is a reduced length. The parameters are the volume V 0 , the bulk modulus B 0 , and its pressure derivative B ′ 0 , all at zero pressure. The fitted parameters and their standard deviations are given in . The obtained value for V 0 is consistent with literature data. Among the sesquicarbide compounds with the cubic Pu 2 C 3 -type structure, La 2 C 3 has the largest lattice pa- rameter and therefore is expected to represent the most compressible candidate in this family of compounds.
TABLE I: Summary of fitted equation-of-state parameters (V0, B0, and B ′ , see Eq. 1) for cubic La2C3 and tetragonal LaC2. The V0 values refer to the volume of the respective conventional unit cell. Also listed is V meas 0 which refers to the ambient-pressure value measured with Cu Kα1 radiation.
Unit cell volume of La2C3 as a function of pressure. The solid line refers to a fitted Birch relation. The dashed line sketches the P V relation of the elemental constituents La metal and carbon (diamond form) taken in appropriate amounts. The inset shows the positional parameter x(La) as a function of pressure. Solid symbols are for data mea- sured under pressure, open symbols are used to represent the x-value obtained after pressure cycling and corresponding lit- erature data. 3,8 There appears to be no experimental data available on the bulk moduli of other cubic rare earth sesquicarbides to compare with. The bulk modulus of La 2 C 3 at 30 GPa is about 250 GPa. This value would be an upper limit for the ambient-pressure bulk modulus B 0 of Y 2 C 3 ; it is much lower than the calculated one (B 0 = 363 GPa) reported in Ref. . At ambient conditions, the volume per La 2 C 3 formula unit (85.68Å 3 ) is smaller than that of the constituents La metal and carbon in the diamond modification (La metal 37.5Å 3 /La, diamond 5.67Å 3 /C, 2 × 37.5 + 3 × 5.67 = 92.0Å 3 ). So, the P ∆V term in the free energy difference favors the formation of the compound under pressure. However, because of the large compressibility of La metal [B 0 (La) ≈ 25 GPa, Ref. 21], the P ∆V term changes sign at about 5 GPa . Hence, La 2 C 3 is not necessarily a thermodynamically stable phase at all pressures cov- ered in our experiment. A high-temperature experiment performed above 5 GPa may result in decomposition or, perhaps, the formation of a metal-rich carbide.
The Pu 2 C 3 -type structure is closely related to the anti-Th 3 P 4 -type. This similarity becomes obvious when writ- ing the stoichiometry as La 4 (C 2 ) 3 instead of La 2 C 3 . The metal atoms in the Pu 2 C 3 structure form a 3D network of condensed RE 8 bisphenoids. The dicarbide anions are centered at the interstitial 12a site (3/8, 0, 1/4) and ori- ented along the 4 axes of the bisphenoids ) whose shape depends on the positional parameter x. For La 2 C 3 we have x(La) ≈ 0.05 which is intermediate be- tween nearly equal lengths of all edges (x ≈ 1/32) and equal center-corner distances (x = 1/12). Near x = 0.05 the metal-metal coordination is 3 + 2 + 6 and the bisphe- noids can host elongated entities.
Within the uncertainty of our data, the positional pa- rameter x(La) stays constant under pressure . This means that the coordination polyhedron around C 2 is compressed isotropically, and there is no change in the second neighbor coordination. Actually, at ambient pres- sure the x parameters of all cubic rare earth and actinide sequicarbides cluster around 0.051 with a quite narrow spread of ±0.002. The arrangement of metal ions in La 2 C 3 is similar to that of the 'cI16' (16-atom body centered cubic) phase of high-pressure Li which can be interpreted as a 2×2×2 su- perstructure of bcc. In Li-cI16 a pseudo-gap is formed, involving a lowering of the density of states N (E F ) at the Fermi level, which leads to a decrease of the total energy relative to any of the common high-symmetry phases of elemental metals. Despite the pseudo-gap formation, the cI16 phase of Li is a superconductor with T c > 10 K (see Ref. and literature cited therein). As for La 2 C 3 , the Fermi level is calculated to also fall into a local mini- mum of the DOS. This is qualitatively similar to what is reported for Y 2 C 3 . 4,5 It is not clear whether the forma- tion of a local DOS minimum in the sesquicarbides is a consequence of the structural distortion of the metal sub- lattice away from bcc. In any case, the states in the DOS minimum of Y 2 C 3 show a strong coupling to 'symmetry- preserving' metal atom displacements, i.e. a change in the x parameter. For La 2 C 3 , a C-C distance of 1.236Å is given in Ref. . A slightly larger distance, about 1.29Å (Ref. 8), appears more plausible. Unfortunately, our experiments do not provide any information on the pressure depen- dence of the C-C distance. This distance will correlate
(Color online) The tetragonal CaC2-type crystal structure of LaC2 [SG I4/mmm (No. 139), Z = 2, a=3.937, c=6.580, La in 2a (0,0,0), C in 4e (0,0,z), z=0.4026, distance C-C = 1.289Å, after Ref. 14]. The C2 units, oriented along c, are sixfold coordinated by La. with the degree of charge transfer between La d and an- tibonding (π * ) states of the C 2 unit. We can expect that the back-donation effect increases with pressure.
We now turn to LaC 2 , the impurity phase in our sample. LaC 2 crystallizes in a body-centered tetrago- nal structure ). The C 2 units in LaC 2 (C-C dis- tance 1.28Å) are reported to be oriented parallel to the c axis 14,28 ; they are sixfold coordinated by La atoms which form elongated octahedra.
The pressure-volume data of LaC 2 are shown in . Parameters obtained by fitting a Birch relation to the high-pressure data are given in . The back- extrapolated zero pressure volume given in is 0.3% larger than V 0 = 102.0Å 3 measured after pressure cycling. The latter value agrees with Ref. 14. Despite the larger carbon to metal ratio, the bulk modulus of LaC 2 comes out slightly lower compared to La 2 C 3 . This may be explained by the larger metal-metal distance in LaC 2 (12 × 3.93Å at ambient pressure) compared to the average value for La 2 C 3 (3 × 3.63Å, 2 × 3.81Å, 6 × 4.01Å). The inset of illustrates that the c/a ratio of LaC 2 increases with increasing pressure, i.e., the com- pressibility is smaller along the direction of the dumbbell orientation.
The diffraction pattern of LaC 2 was completely lost at pressures above 13 GPa, but it reappeared upon releasing pressure. It is left to a separate study to find out whether LaC 2 undergoes a reversible pressure-induced phase tran- sition. Already at ambient pressure, the volume of LaC 2 is larger than that of the constituents (LaC 2 = 51Å 3 per formula unit at P =0, La + 2 C = 48.84Å 3 ). So, ap- plication of pressure should be a strong driving force for a phase change, not ruling out at this point a pressure- induced amorphization as a precursor to phase separa- tion. Another question, brought up by studies of CaC 2
Unit cell volume of tetragonal LaC2 as a function of pressure. The solid line refers to a fitted Birch relation. The inset shows the c/a ratio as a function of pressure. at ambient pressure, concerns the orientation of the C 2 dumbbells in tetragonal LaC 2 . Our data point to a possible c/a anomaly near ambient pressure (see inset of ) which could be related to a pressure-dependent reorientation.
In conclusion, the present high-pressure structural study gives quantitative information on the equation of state and structural parameters of superconducting La 2 C 3 . The results may serve as a reference for the as yet unknown high-pressure behavior of other cubic rare earth sesquicarbides. The results are also believed to pro- vide useful input for modelling the pressure-dependence of the electronic structure and the electron-phonon cou- pling of La 2 C 3.