Oxygen-isotope effect on the in-plane penetration depth in underdoped Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ as revealed by muon-spin rotation
The oxygen-isotope ( 16 O/ 18 O) effect (OIE) on the in-plane penetration depth λ ab (0) in under- doped Y1−xPrxBa2Cu3O 7−δ was studied by muon-spin rotation. A pronounced OIE on λ −2 ab (0) was observed with a relative isotope shift of ∆λ −2 ab /λ −2 ab = −5(2)% for x = 0.3 and -9(2)% for x = 0.4. It arises mainly from the oxygen-mass dependence of the in-plane effective mass m * ab . The OIE exponents of Tc and of λ −2 ab (0) exhibit a relation that appears to be generic for cuprate superconductors.
The pairing mechanism responsible for high- temperature superconductivity remains elusive in spite of the fact that many models have been pro- posed since its discovery. A fundamental question is whether lattice effects are relevant for the occurrence of high-temperature superconductivity. In order to clarify this point a large number of isotope-effect studies were performed since 1987 . The first oxygen-isotope effect (OIE) studies on the transition temperature T c were performed on optimally doped samples, showing no significant isotope shift . However, later experiments revealed a small but finite dependence of T c on the oxygen-isotope mass M O , as well as on the copper-isotope mass M Cu . Moreover, a general trend in the dependence of the OIE exponent α O = −d ln T c/d ln M O on the doping level was found which appears to be generic for all cuprate supercon- ductors : In the underdoped region α O is large, even exceeding the conventional BCS-value α = 0.5 and becomes small in the optimally doped and overdoped regime.
There is increasing evidence that a strong electron- phonon coupling is present in cuprate superconductors, which may lead to the formation of polarons (bare charge carriers accompanied by local lattice distortions) . One way to test this hypothesis is to demonstrate that the effective mass of the supercarriers m * depends on the mass M of the lattice atoms. This is in contrast to conventional BCS superconductors, where only the 'bare' charge carriers condense into Cooper pairs, and m * is es- sentially independent of M . For cuprate superconductors (clean limit) the in-plane penetration depth λ ab is simply given by λ −2 ab (0) ∝ n s /m * ab , where n s is the superconduct- ing charge carrier density, and m * ab is the in-plane effec- tive mass of the superconducting charge carriers. This implies that the OIE on λ ab is due to a shift in n s and/or m * ab : Therefore a possible mass dependence of m * ab can be tested by investigating the isotope effect on λ ab , provided that the contribution of n s to the total isotope shift is known.
Previous OIE studies of the penetration depth in YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ , La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 , and Bi 1.6 Pb 0.4 Sr 2 Ca 2 Cu 3 O 10+δ indeed showed a pro- nounced oxygen-mass dependence on the supercarrier mass. However, in all these experiments the penetration depth was determined indirectly from the onset of magne- tization , from the Meissner fraction , and from magnetic torque measurements . The muon- spin rotation (µSR ) technique is a direct and accurate method to determine the penetration depth λ in type II superconductors. In this Letter, we report µSR measure- ments of in-plane penetration depth λ ab in underdoped Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ (x = 0.3 and 0.4) with two differ- ent oxygen isotopes ( 16 O and 18 O). A large OIE on λ ab was observed which mainly arises from the oxygen-mass dependence of m * ab . Polycrystalline samples of Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ (x = 0.3 and x = 0.4) were prepared by standard solid state reaction . Oxygen isotope exchange was performed during heating the samples in 18 O 2 gas. In order to en- sure the same thermal history of the substituted ( 18 O) and not substituted ( 16 O) sample, two experiments (in 16 O 2 and 18 O 2 ) were always performed simultaneously. The exchange and back exchange processes were car- ried out at 600 o C during 25 h, and then the samples were slowly cooled (20 o C/h) in order to oxidize them completely. The 18 O content in the samples, as deter- mined from a change of the sample weight after the iso- tope exchange, was found to be 78(2)% for both sam- ples. The total oxygen content of the samples was deter-mined using high-accuracy volumetric analysis . To examine the quality of the samples low-field (1mT, field- cooled) SQUID magnetization measurements were per- formed (see ). For both concentrations the T c onset for the 16 O samples was higher than for 18 O with nearly the same transition width. An oxygen back exchange of the 18 O sample (x = 0.4) resulted within error in almost the same magnetization curve as for the O sample, confirming that the back exchange is almost complete. The results of the OIE on T c are summarized in . Taking into account an isotope exchange of 78%, we found α O = 0.22(4) for x = 0.3 and α O = 0.37(5) for x = 0.4, in agreement with previous results .
Section near Tc of the low-field (1mT, field-cooled) magnetization curves (normalized to the value at 10K) for Y1−xPrxBa2Cu3O 7−δ (x = 0.3 and 0.4). The µSR experiments were performed at the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), Switzerland, using the πM3 µSR facility. The samples consisted of sintered pellets ( 12 mm in diameter, 3 mm thick) which were mounted on a Fe 2 O 3 sample holder in order to reduce the background from muons not stopping in the sample. The polycrys- talline Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ samples were cooled from far above T c in a magnetic field of 200 mT perpendic- ular to the sample disk. Time-differential µSR spec- troscopy was employed, from which one can deduce the probability distribution of the local magnetic field p(B) of the vortex state by measuring the time evolution of the muon-spin polarization . In a powder sample the magnetic penetration depth λ can be extracted from the muon-spin depolarization rate σ(T ) ∝ 1/λ 2 (T ), which probes the second moment ∆B 2 1/2 of p(B) in the mixed state . For highly anisotropic layered supercon- ductors (like the cuprate superconductors) λ is mainly determinated by the in-plane penetration depth λ ab :
Temperature dependence of the µSR depolarization rate σ of Y1−xPrxBa2Cu3O 7−δ for x = 0.3, measured in a field 200 mT (field-cooled). The depolarization rate σ was extracted from the µSR time spectra using a Gaussian relaxation func- tion R(t) = exp[−σ 2 t 2 /2]. shows the temperature dependence of the measured σ for the Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ samples with x = 0.3. Similar re- sults were obtained for the samples with x = 0.4. It is ev- ident that the values of σ for 18 O are systematically lower than those for 16 O. As expected for a type II supercon- ductor in the mixed state, σ continuously increases below T c with decreasing temperature . The sharp increase of σ below ≃ 10 K is due to antiferromagnetic ordering of the Cu(2) moments . Above T c a small tempera- ture independent depolarization rate σ nm ≃ 0.15 µs −1 is seen, arising from the nuclear magnetic moments of Cu and Pr. Therefore, the total σ is determined by three contributions: a superconducting (σ sc ), an antiferromag- netic (σ af m ), and a small nuclear magnetic dipole (σ nm ) contribution. Because σ af m is only present at low tem- peratures, data points below 10 K were not considered in the analysis. The superconducting contribution σ sc was then determined by subtracting σ nm measured above T c from σ. In we show the temperature dependence of σ sc for the Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ samples with x = 0.3 and 0.4. It is evident that for both concentrations a re- markable oxygen isotope shift on T c as well as on σ sc is present.
The data in were fitted to the power law σ sc (T )/σ sc (0) = 1−(T /T c ) n with σ sc (0) and n as free parameters, and T c fixed. The values of T c were taken from the magnetization measurements (see ). The
Temperature dependence of depolarization rate σsc in Y1−xPrxBa2Cu3O 7−δ for x = 0.3 and 0.4 (200 mT, field- cooled). On the right axis the normalized in-plane pene- tration depth λ −2 ab (T )/λ −2 ab (0)( 18 O) is plotted for comparison with Ref. [15]. The solid lines correspond to fits to the power law σsc(T )/σsc(0) = 1 − (T /Tc) n . values of σ sc (0) obtained from the fits are listed in and are in agreement with previous results . The exponent n was found to be n = 2.0(1) for x = 0.3 and n = 1.5(1) for x = 0.4, which is typical for underdoped YBCO . Moreover, n is within error the same for O and 18 O. This implies that σ sc has nearly the same temperature dependence for the two isotopes (see ). In order to proof that the observed OIE on λ ab (0) are in- trinsic, the 18 O sample with x = 0.4 was back exchanged ( 18 O → 16 O). As seen in , the data points of this sample (cross symbols) indeed coincide with those of the 16 O sample. From the values of σ sc (0) listed in the relative isotope shift of the in-plane penetration depth ∆λ −2 Taking into account an isotope ex- change of 78%, one finds ∆λ −2 ab (0)/λ −2 ab (0) = −5(2)% and -9(2)% for x = 0.3 and 0.4, respectively . For the OIE exponent β O = −d ln λ −2 ab (0)/d ln M O , one readily obtains β O = 0.38(12) for x = 0.3 and β O = 0.71(14) for x = 0.4 ). This means that in un- derdoped Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ the OIE on λ −2 ab as well as on T c increase with increasing Pr doping x (decreas-
TABLE I: Summary of the OIE results for Y1−xPrxBa2Cu3O 7−δ extracted from the experimental data (see text for an explanation). 16 O 18 O x Tc σsc(0) Tc σsc(0) αO [%] 0.3 60.6(1) 1.63
for the back-exchange ( 18 O→ 16 O) sample ing T c ). This finding is in excellent agreement with the recent magnetic torque measurements on underdoped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4.
According to Eq. (1) the observed ∆λ −2 ab (0)/λ −2 ab (0) is due to a shift of n s and/or m * ab . For La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 several independent experiments have shown that the change of n s during the exchange proce- dure is negligibly small.
In the present work we provide further evidence: (i) The fully oxygenated Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ samples (δ ≃ 0) were all prepared under identical conditions, either in a 16 O 2 or 18 O 2 at- mosphere , and the Pr content x did not change. It is very unlikely that n s changes significantly upon O substitution, and after the back-exchange ( 18 O→ 16 O) the same results are obtained (see Figs. 1, 3 and ). (ii) According to a model that describes the suppression of T c in Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ , the num- ber of supercarriers decreases linearly with increasing x in the range of 0.05 < x < 0.5, and consequently ∆n s /n s = −∆x/x. Moreover, for 0.1 < x < 0.5 the transition temperature T c decreases linearly with x, with ∆T c /∆x ≃ −150 K/Pr atom . Combining this two relations one obtains: ∆T c ≃ −150 · x · ∆n s /n s . As- suming that the observed OIE on λ −2 ab is only due to a change of n s (∆m * ab /m * ab ≃ 0), one can estimate the cor- responding shift of T c . For x = 0.3 and x = 0.4 one finds ∆T c ≃ −1.8(4) K and −4.2(6) K, respectively. The ex- perimental values, however, are much lower (see ): ∆T c = −1.3(1) K (x = 0.3) and ∆T c = −1.7(1) K (x = 0.4). We thus conclude that any change in n s dur- ing the exchange procedure must be small, and that the change of λ ab is mainly due to the OIE on the in-plane effective mass m * ab with ∆m * ab /m * ab ≃ 5(2) % and 9(2) % for x = 0.3 and x = 0.4, respectively. This implies that the effective supercarrier mass m * ab in this cuprate su- perconductor depends on the oxygen mass of the lattice atoms, which is not expected for a conventional phonon- mediated BSC superconductor.
In the exponent β O versus the exponent α O for Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ is plotted. For comparison we also included the recent magnetic torque results of un- derdoped La 2−x Sr x CuO 4 . It is evident that these exponents are linearly correlated: A best fit yields A = 1.8(4) and B = −0.01, so that β O ≃ A · α O . This empirical relation appears to be generic for cuprate superconductors. Quantitatively one can understand this behavior in terms of an empiri- cal relation between T c and the µSR depolarization rate σ sc (0) . It was shown that for most fami- lies of cuprate superconductors the simple parabolic re- lation T c = 2σ(1 − σ/2) describes the experimental data rather well (here T c = T c/T m c , σ = σ sc (0)/σ m sc (0), and T m c and σ m sc (0) are the transition temperature and de- polarization rate of the optimally doped system). Using this parabolic Ansatz, one readily obtains the linear re- lation between β O and α O : In the heavily underdoped regime
Plot of the OIE exponents βO versus αO for Y1−xPrxBa2Cu3O 7−δ (x = 0.3 and 0.4) and La2−xSrxCuO4 (x = 0.080 and 0.086) from [15]. The dashed line represents a best fit to the empirical relation βO = A · αO + B. (T c → 0) β O /α O → 1. For the underdoped samples shown in the reduced critical temperature T c is in the range 0.5 to 0.7, yielding β O /α O = 1.2 − 1.4, in agreement with A = 1.8(4) obtained from the experi- mental data. Very recently, it was pointed out that the unusual doping dependence of the OIE on T c and on λ −2 ab (0) naturally follows from the doping driven 3D-2D crossover and the 2D quantum superconductor to insu- lator transition in the underdoped limit. It is predicted that in the underdoped regime β O /α O → 1, which is consistent with the parabolic Ansatz.
In summary, we performed µSR measurements of the in-plane penetration depth λ ab in underdoped Y 1−x Pr x Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7−δ (x = 0.3, 0.4) for samples with two different oxygen isotopes ( 16 O and 18 O). A pronounced OIE on both the transition temperature T c and λ −2 ab (0) was observed, which increases with decreasing T c . The isotope shift on λ −2 ab (0) is attributed to a shift in the in- plane effective mass m * ab . For x = 0.3 and 0.4 we find ∆m * ab /m * ab = −5(2)% and -9(2)%, respectively. Further- more, an empirical relation between the OIE exponents β O and α O was found that appears to be generic for vari- ous classes of cuprate superconductors. The OIE on m * ab implies that the superconducting carriers have polaronic character, and that lattice effects play an essential role in the occurrence of high-temperature superconductivity.