Quasiparticle Excitation in the Superconducting Pyrochlore Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 Probed by Muon Spin Rotation
The quasiparticle excitations in the mixed state of Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 have been studied by means of muon spin rotation/relaxation (µSR). The tempera- ture dependence of the magnetic penetration depth (λ) is consistent with a nearly isotropic superconducting order parameter, although a slight dis- crepancy which is dependent on the details in the analysis may be present. This is also supported by the relatively weak field dependence of λ.
A class of metal oxides isostructural to mineral pyrochlore has been attracting consid- erable attention because they exhibit a wide variety of interesting physical properties. The pyrochlore has a general formula of A 2 B 2 O 7 , consisting of BO 6 octahedra and eightfold coordinated A cations, where A and B are transition metals and/or rare-earth elements. In particular, the B sublattice can be viewed as a three-dimensional network of corner-sharing tetrahedra, providing a testing ground for studying the role of geometrical frustration in sys- tems which have local spins at B sites with antiferromagnetic (AFM) correlation. Such systems are known to remain frustrated even when the exchange interaction is ferromagnetic (FM), provided that the spin correlation has local Ising anisotropy. Recent studies have revealed a rich variety of phenomena seemingly related to the geometrical frustration, such as the occurrence of a spin-glass (SG) phase in R 2 Mo 2 O 7 with R=Y, Tb and Dy , the unusual behavior of ordinary and anomalous Hall coefficients in the same compound with R=Nd, Sm and Gd , and the "spin-ice" phase in R 2 Ti 2 O 7 with R=Dy and Ho. Although metallic pyrochlores comprise a minority subgroup of the pyrochlore family, they consist of distinct members such as Tl 2 Mn 2 O 7 , which exhibits colossal magnetoresis- tance. Moreover, the recently revealed superconductivity in Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 , a 5d transition metal pyrochlore , demonstrates that the pyrochlores provide a fertile field for elec- tronic correlation adjacent to the perovskite compounds. In this context, it is noteworthy that LiV 2 O 4 , a cubic spinel compound in which the V sublattice is isostructural to the B sublattice in pyrochlore, behaves similarly to a heavy fermion metal. It is reported that Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 falls into the bulk superconducting state below T c ≃ 1 ∼ 2 K, as confirmed by a large jump of specific heat ∆C c as well as large diamagnetism due to the Meissner effect associated with the occurrence of zero resistivity. The dc magnetization curve indicates that the superconductivity is of type II with the upper critical field close to 0.29 T at 0 K. The ratio ∆C c /γT c (with γ being the Sommerfeld constant) is reported to be 1.15, which is smaller than the predicted value of 1.43 for isotropic BCS superconductors. Unfortunately, these measurements were performed only above 0.4 K and are thus inconclusive in determining the detailed characteristics of superconductivity in Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 . In this Letter, we report on the quasiparticle excitations in the mixed state of Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 studied by muon spin rotation/relaxation (µSR). The magnetic penetration depth λ, which reflects the population of normal electrons ("quasiparticles") in the superconductive state, is determined microscopically by measuring the muon spin relaxation due to the spatial inhomogeneity of magnetic induction in the flux line lattice (FLL). We show that the temperature dependence of λ is more or less consistent with the prediction based on the BCS superconductors with an isotropic gap, although a slight discrepancy is suggested by the detailed analysis.
The µSR experiments on both single-crystal and polycrystalline Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 were per- formed on the M15 beamline at the TRIUMF muon facility which provides a beam of nearly 100% spin-polarized positive muons of momentum 28.6 MeV/c. The specimen was mounted on the coldfinger of a 3 He-4 He dilution refrigerator and cooled from a temperature above T c after setting the magnetic field at every field point (i.e., field-cooling) to eliminate the effect of flux pinning. The field and temperature scan data were obtained at T = 0.2 K and at H = 0.1 T, respectively. Muons were implanted into the specimen (measuring about 10 mm×10 mm and 1 mm thick) after being passed through a beam collimator. The initial muon spin polarization was perpendicular to the magnetic field H and thus to the FLL in the superconducting state.
Since the muons stop randomly along the length scale of the FLL, the muon spin pre- cession signalP (t) provides a random sampling of the internal field distribution B(r), where γ µ is the muon gyromagnetic ratio (=2π×135.53 MHz/T), and n(B) is the spectral density for muon precession determined by the local field distribution. These equations indi- cate that the real amplitude of the Fourier-transformed muon precession signal corresponds to the local field distribution n(B). The local field distribution can be approximated as the sum of magnetic induction from isolated vortices in the London model to yield where K is a translation of the vortex reciprocal lattice, B 0 (≃ H) is the average internal field, λ is the London penetration depth, and ξ v is the cutoff parameter. The term O(K 2 x , K 2 y ) denotes the nonlocal effect in which the electromagnetic response kernel Q(K) generating the supercurrent around the vortex depends on K. While this term is eliminated in the conventional BCS superconductors with isotropic s-wave pairing, it becomes important for the moe complex order parameters such as anisotropic s-wave or d-wave (e.g., d x 2 −y 2 ). The London penetration depth in the FLL state is related to the second moment ∆B 2 = (B(r) − B 0 ) 2 of the field distribution reflected in the µSR line shape (where means the spatial average). In polycrystalline samples, a Gaussian distribution of local fields is a good approximation, whereP For the case of ideal triangular FLL with isotropic effective carrier mass m * and a cutoff K ≈ 1.4/ξ v provided by the numerical solution of the Ginsburg-Landau theory, the London penetration depth λ (with O(K 2 x , K 2 y ) = 0) can be deduced from σ using the following relation , In both cases, λ is related to the superconducting carrier density n s as indicating that λ is enhanced upon the reduction of n s due to the quasiparticle excitations.
For simplicity, we adopt eq. (0.6) for the following analysis.
In a preliminary analysis, we found that the spin relaxation rate due to the FLL formation is less than 0.1 µs −1 which is typically of the same order of magnitude as that due to static random local fields from nuclear magnetic moments. This means that the additional relaxation due to 111,113 Cd and 185,187 Re nuclear moments must be considered for the proper estimation of λ in Cd 2 Re 2 O 7. To this end, the following equation was used in the actual fitting analysis of the time spectra, where σ 0 is the relaxation rate due to the nuclear moments and ν is the power of relaxation.
The parameters σ 0 and ν were evaluated by fitting the time spectra above T c with σ set to zero, yielding σ 0 ≃ 0.057(1) µs −1 and ν ≃ 1.0 in the polycrystalline specimen at H = 0.1 T.
Then, σ due to the formation of FLL below T c was deduced by analyzing data with σ 0 and ν being fixed to the above values. A similar analysis was performed for the data obtained for the single crystals.
a) shows the temperature dependence of σ in Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 at H = 0.1 T. Upon the onset of FLL formation, σ exhibits a gradual increase with decreasing temperature just below T c (0.1 T) ∼ 0.7 K at this field. According to the empirical two-fluid model approximately valid for conventional BCS superconductors, we have which leads to where t ≡ T /T c (0.1 T). The fitting analysis by the same formula with an arbitrary power, with T c as a free parameter yields β = 2.8and T c = 0.65(3) K. We also found that T c = 0.62(1) K when β = 4 is assumed, which is slightly lower than the value T c ≃ 0.7 K estimated from the specific heat measurement for this field. Although the difference is not obvious between these cases (solid curve for β = 2.8 and the dashed curve for β = 4) in , we note that the reduced χ 2 for the former is almost two times smaller (better) than the latter.
Taking H c2 = 0.29 T, the penetration depth extrapolated to T = 0 (λ(0, 0.1 T) is 700nm, leading to the Ginsburg-Landau parameter κ ≃ 21 with ξ ≃ 34 nm estimated from H c2 (0). Thus, it is concluded that Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 is a typical type II superconductor with large λ, which is consistent with the results of magnetization measurement. The finding that β ≃ 2.8 may indicate that the deviation ∆λ = λ(t)−λ(0) ∝ T β exhibits a tendency predicted for the case of line nodes (d-wave pairing) with some disorder (i.e., dirty limit), where ∆λ ∝ T 2 .
Such a temperature dependence has actually been observed in high-T c (YBCO) cuprates. Compared with the case of isotropic gap ∆k = ∆ 0 , the quasiparticle excitations are enhanced along nodes (|∆k| = 0) to reduce average n s , leading to the enhancement of λ. However, the result of the fitting analysis also suggests that the discrepancy may be attributed to experimental uncertainty including the precise value of T c . Thus, we are led to conclude that the order parameter in Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 is mostly isotropic with a possibility of residual weak anisotropy as suggested by the slightly reduced value of β.
As shown in , σ decreases with increasing external field, where the general field dependence is determined by the increasing contribution of normal vortex cores and the stronger overlap of field distribution around the cores which are described by the term (1−h) in eq.(0.6). The fitting analysis by eq.(0.6) with H c2 and λ(H = 0) as free parameters yields H c 2 = 0.37(5) T and λ(H = 0) = 796(12) nm at 0.2 K. Since the deduced value of H c2 is consistent with that obtained from the magnetization measurement (≃ 0.29 T), we can conclude that the observed field dependence of λ is mostly due to the vortex core/overlap effect, except for the fields below ∼0.06 T where a slightly steeper reduction of σ is suggested.
The penetration depth deduced for each field using eq.(0.6) with H c2 = 0.37 T is plotted in . In order to evaluate the relative strength of the pair-breaking effect, it is useful to introduce a dimensionless parameter η to describe the field dependence of λ with the following simple linear relation, where h ≡ H/H c2 (0.2K) with H c2 (0.2K) = 0.37 T.
From the analysis of data in ), we find that η = 0.38(14) with λ(0.2K, 0) = 741(5) nm for 0 ≤ H ≤ 0.06 T. In general, the field dependence of λ is enhanced by two different mechanisms, i.e., the nonlinear effect in the semiclassical Doppler shift of the quasiparticle energy levels due to the supercurrent around the vortex cores, and the nonlocal effect which further modifies the quasiparticle excitation spectrum in the momentum space. In particular, the nonlocal effect is important in the system with line nodes because the coherence length is inversely proportional to the order parameter, such that ξ 0 (k) =hv F /π∆k. The divergence of ξ 0 along the nodal directions |∆k| = 0 means that the response of quasiparticles near the nodes is highly nonlocal. It is predicted that η ≪ 1 for the isotropic s-wave pairing because the finite gap prevents the shifted levels of quasiparticle excitations from being occupied at low temperatures. This is supported, for example, by the recent observation in CeRu 2 , in which η ≃ 0 over the field region 0 ≤ h ≤ 0.5 where the system behaves more or less as a conventional BCS superconductor with isotropic s-wave pairing. [21] On the other hand, stronger field depen- dence is predicted for the case of d-wave or anisotropic s-wave pairing due to the excess population of quasiparticles in the region where |∆k| is small or zero. Typical examples for the d-wave pairing are those of high-T c cuprates in which η is reported to be 5∼6.6 for YBCO. Meanwhile, in the case of an s-wave superconductor YNi 2 B 2 C in which strong anisotropy for ∆k is suggested experimentally , η ≃ 1 is reported from a µSR study. The comparison of these earlier results with our result suggests that the anisotropy of the order parameter in Cd 2 Re 2 O 7 is considerably smaller than YNi 2 B 2 C.
Finally, we comment that the recent observation of a clear coherence peak below T c in the 187 Re NQR measurement does not necessarily indicate the absence of anisotropy in the order parameter. In the case of the anisotropic energy gap, the magnitude of the coherence peak depends on the mean free path l. The coherence peak is enhanced in a certain condition of l where quasiparticles probe only a limited region of the Fermi surface.
Thus, while the actual value of l is difficult to estimate because of the semimetallic character of this compound, the NQR result does not completely rule out the presence of anisotropy in general.
In summary, we have investigated the quasiparticle excitations in the mixed state of Re 2 O 7 by µSR. The temperature and field dependence of the London penetration depth indicates that the basic feature is consistent with the isotropic order parameter for BCS s-wave pairing, although there remains a certain subtlety suggested by the small deviation from the theoretical prediction which may be better understood by considering a weak anisotropy.
Temperature dependence of a) the muon spin relaxation rate σ due to flux line lattice and b) the magnetic penetration depth λ, where solid circles are the data from the polycrystalline specimen and open triangles are those from single crystals. Solid curves are results of fitting by a relation σ ∝ 1/λ ∝ 1 − (T /T c ) β with β and T c being free parameters. Dashed curves are obtained when β = 4 with T c as a free parameter.
Magnetic field dependence of a) the muon spin relaxation rate σ due to flux line lattice and b) the magnetic penetration depth λ. The solid line in a) is a result of fitting by eq.(0.6) with H c2 being a free parameter. Dashed lines are obtained by fitting data with a relation λ ∝ 1 + η(H/H c2 ) only for 0 ≤ H ≤ 0.06 T.